INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Inside this report
Reporting context 202 Interplay of capitals
4 About the report
204 Awards & recognitions
Welcome to Axis Bank
Statutory reports
10 About Axis Bank
12 Integrated business lines 206 Board’s report
14 Chairman’s statement 234 Management’s discussion and analysis
16 Strategic pillars 277 Corporate governance
18 Advancing our ESG agenda 324 Business responsibility and sustainability report
20 Presence
Financial statements
22 Milestones
24 Ownership structure 325 Independent auditor’s report – Standalone
26 Operating landscape financial statements
30 Marketing Initiatives 332 Standalone financial statements
40 Board of directors 431 Independent auditor’s report – Consolidated
41 Core management team financial statements
442 Consolidated financial statements
Value creation by the bank 500 Form AOC–1
502 Basel III disclosures
44 Value creation model
48 Stakeholder engagement
58 Materiality assessment
Business performance review
70 MD & CEO’s statement
76 External environment
84 Strategy in action
88 Key performance indicators
92 Message from the management – Retail banking
To know more
96 Business segment performance – Retail banking
about us explore
102 Message from the management – Wholesale banking axisbank.com
104 Business segment performance – Wholesale banking
108 ‘One Axis’ in action
116 Message from the management – Operations
and transformation
Har raah dil se open
120 For customers
Pg. 14
120 Banking beyond transactions
126 Banking in the Digital–first era
Promoting enduring
130 Bharat banking
value for our
134 For employees
stakeholders
146 For investors
152 For communities “Our balance sheet
160 For partners – Government remains a fortress,
164 For the environment backed by best–in–class
asset quality metrics.”
Governance
N. S. Vishwanathan
178 Corporate governance
Independent
186 Risk management
Director and
192 Cyber security and data privacy
Part–time Chairman
196 Thought leadership and policy advocacy
Pg. 108
‘One Axis’ in action
One platform, infinite financial journeys
‘One Axis’
Many
Possibilities
Pg. 76
External environment
Navigating a shifting
world order
Pg. 126
Banking in the digital–first era
Innovating with a
digital–first approach
Pg. 192
Cyber security and data privacy
Safeguarding customer confidence with
uncompromising security
1
At Axis Bank, ‘Har raah dil se open’ is a commitment
we stand by, and carry forward every day. It is
there in the quiet determination of our 104,000+
dil se open bankers, responsible and responsive,
who take financial services to the remotest corners
of the country. They represent our deeply human
approach to banking — embodying our ethos of
serving with empathy, integrity, and the willingness
to listen and adapt. Whether it comes to serving
a first–time borrower in a far–flung hamlet or
supporting a digitally well–versed urban customer,
our teams approach every road with their minds
open to explore every possibility to deliver on
expectations. With every interaction, collaboration
and innovation, we ensure that banking remains
inclusive, accessible and meaningful. In a world of
rapid change, our openness fuels progress — not
just for the Bank, but for every life we touch.
For customers For employees
We listen with empathy and serve We empower our people to
with integrity, bringing inclusive grow with purpose in a culture
banking to every doorstep. that values care, learning, and
leadership.
Read more pg. 120
Read more pg. 134
2
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
For investors For partners
We create long–term We support national priorities
value through transparent through collaborations that spark
governance and responsible, innovation and drive shared
future–ready growth. success, aligning our strengths
to drive inclusive development.
Read more pg. 146
Read more pg. 160
For communities For the environment
We stand with communities, We embed sustainability into
enabling livelihoods, inclusion, our investment decisions and
and dignity through focused operations to protect natural capital
social impact. and enable climate resilience.
Read more pg. 152 Read more pg. 164
3
Reporting Context
ABOUT THE REPORT
Approach to reporting
Our second Integrated Annual Reporting Council <IR> Framework It offers a structured and in–depth
Report for fiscal 2025 reflects our and SEBI’s guidelines on Integrated account of the Bank’s strategic
untiring commitment to transparency, Reporting and seeks to provide an priorities, governance architecture,
innovation, and value creation which accurate and balanced insight into risk management frameworks, and
is open to new possibilities, open to the Bank’s financial and non–financial value creation processes. Through
customer aspirations, and open to performance, aligning with our comprehensive and transparent
sustainable progress. strategic vision and long–term value disclosures, the Bank seeks to inform
creation approach. stakeholders of its long–term vision,
Reporting Principles and operational integrity, and dedication
This report articulates the
Framework to sustainable and responsible
Bank’s continued commitment to
growth, which is in line with reporting
This Integrated Annual Report integrating Environmental, Social,
guidelines and frameworks as set out
has been prepared in accordance and Governance (ESG) imperatives
by regulators.
with the International Integrated into its core business operations.
Integrated Reporting Statutory Reports
» Integrated Reporting Framework <IR> developed » SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
by International Integrated Reporting Council Requirements) Regulations, 2015
(IIRC)
» Companies Act, 2013, and amendments thereto
» SEBI Guidelines on Integrated Reporting
» Guidelines issued by other regulators as applicable
Sustainability Reporting Financial Statements
» SEBI’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability » The Banking Regulation Act, 1949
Reporting (BRSR) framework
» Regulations, circulars, and guidelines issued by the
» Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
» Task Force on Climate–related Financial Disclosures » Accounting Standards notified under Section 133
(TCFD) framework of the Companies Act, 2013
» United Nations Sustainable Development Goals » Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, and Companies
(UN SDGs) (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021
4
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
About the report
Materiality and Scope » Strengthen risk management
Financial Reporting Boundary and governance by considering
Our reporting is guided by our
both opportunities and
Materiality Assessment, which identifies Alignment with the financial
challenges holistically.
key economic, environmental, social, statements and statutory
and governance–related factors that reporting requirements » Empower and engage our people,
impact our ability to create and sustain nurturing a future–ready workforce
value in the short, medium and long No significant changes in the through continuous learning,
term. We prioritise issues based on organisation type, ownership, or inclusivity, and a culture of
stakeholder expectations, business reporting boundaries have occurred performance and purpose.
impact, and regulatory standards through during the reporting period.
» Invest in robust infrastructure and
a structured materiality assessment,
The previous year figures have been digital ecosystems, enabling secure,
aligning with <IR>, GRI, TCFD, and
regrouped and reclassified, where scalable, and accessible banking
BRSR frameworks. This approach
necessary, to conform to current solutions across urban
ensures transparent, relevant, and
year’s presentation ensuring and rural India.
forward–looking disclosures, enabling
comparability and continuity in
stakeholders to make informed decisions Our Integrated Reporting Universe
measurement methods, timeframes,
while reinforcing our commitment to seamlessly connects these elements,
and disclosures.
responsible banking and the creation of ensuring that every decision we
long–term value. make is open to growth, innovation,
and sustainability.
Reporting Period Our Open Approach to Integrated
Reporting
This Integrated Annual Report presents
Guiding Principles
the standalone performance of the Bank Integrated Thinking at Decision
for the twelve months from Making Our Integrated Report is based
April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025, unless on key guiding principles of
Integrated thinking is at the core of
stated otherwise. It also captures key the Integrated Reporting
creating, sustaining, and enhancing
external factors, stakeholder insights, Framework, which ensure
value for all stakeholders. It drives our
and strategic responses to emerging transparency, connectivity, and
strategic decision–making by ensuring
opportunities and risks. value creation for stakeholders.
a holistic, interconnected approach
that aligns financial success with Strategic Focus and Future
sustainable impact. Orientation
Reporting Boundary
By embedding integrated thinking, Connectivity of Information
we break silos and foster synergies
This report aligns with the principles Stakeholder Relationships
across six key capitals–Financial,
of the Integrated Reporting
Manufactured, Social and Relationship, Materiality Orientation
<IR> Framework and presents
Intellectual, Human and Natural.
an interconnected view of the Conciseness
This approach enables us to:
Bank’s financial and non–financial
Reliability and Completeness
performance. The boundaries include: » Enhance long–term value creation
Consistency and Comparability
by integrating financial performance
Integrated Reporting Boundary
with ESG commitments.
Our Operating Context
» Align business strategy with
Our Business Model and Impact
stakeholder priorities through
on the Six Capitals
proactive engagement
Our Strategy and responsiveness.
Stakeholder Engagement » Leverage innovation and digital
transformation to drive
Governance
operational excellence and
customer–centric solutions.
5
Reporting Context
Our Integrated Reporting Process
Our Integrated Report follows a structured and transparent preparation process to ensure accuracy, relevance, and
alignment with global best practices:
A dedicated reporting Senior management Materiality assessment Data and insights
team oversees the and the Board provide and risk management are sourced
process, incorporating oversight, ensuring the frameworks guide through leadership
both internal and report aligns with the the identification interviews,
external feedback to Bank’s strategic vision of key themes internal reporting
enhance the quality of and stakeholder and disclosures. mechanisms, and
the report. expectations. regulatory guidelines.
Approval by the Board of Directors Assurance Forward–Looking Statement
» The Bank acknowledges the » The standalone and consolidated This report includes certain
integrity of the information financial statements in this forward–looking statements based on
provided in this Integrated Annual report have been independently current expectations, market trends, and
Report and believes that the audited by: strategic assumptions. These statements
report is a fair and balanced view are subject to risks, uncertainties, and
− M/s. M M Nissim & Co LLP,
of the Bank’s performance and external factors, which may cause
Chartered Accountants
prospects within the Integrated actual results to differ materially from
(FRN 107122W/W100672)
Reporting Framework. projections. Axis Bank is not obligated to
− M/s. KKC & Associates LLP, update these statements unless required
» The Board is informed that the
Chartered Accountants to do so by law.
report aligns with the Integrated
(FRN 105146W/W100621)
Reporting Framework and
acknowledges that the information » SGS India Private Ltd. (SGS India)
provided in the Report has been has externally assured the Business
reviewed and approved by the Responsibility and Sustainability Feedback
respective business units and Report (BRSR) Core. The said
We value your feedback that would
top management. Assurance Statement is available
enable us to disclose relevant
on our website as part of the BRSR.
information in an effective and
‘Reasonable Assurance’ is provided
transparent manner. Please write to
for the BRSR Core.
us at shareholders@axisbank.com
Our Material Issues
M1 Regulatory Compliance M8 Impact of Climate Change
M2 Corporate Governance & Ethical Business Conduct M9 Financial Inclusion, Literacy & Access
M3 Risk Management M10 Community Engagement & Development
M4 Fraud & Money Laundering – Prevention, M11 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Detection & Mitigation
M12 Sustainable Finance & Responsible Banking
M5 Privacy and Data Security
M13 Employee Engagement, Development & Wellbeing
M6 Customer Experience & Satisfaction
M14 Policy Advocacy and Thought leadership
M7 Innovation and Digitalisation
M15 Return on Equity and Return to Shareholders
6
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
About the report
Financial Capital
Our financial resilience drives growth, supports responsible
lending, and fosters customer–centric initiatives, ensuring
sustainable profitability and long–term value creation.
Natural Capital Manufactured Capital
We are committed Our vast branch
to building a greener, network, digital banking
more resilient financial ecosystem, and
ecosystem through green Our Capitals omni–channel platforms
financing, responsible Six interconnected capitals offer a convenient,
resource management, shape our approach to secure and accessible
and climate action. value creation and define banking experience
anytime, anywhere.
our unique approach to
banking–one that is ‘open’ to
possibilities, partnerships,
and progress
Human Capital Social & Relationship Capital
We invest in nurturing We foster financial inclusion,
talent, fostering community engagement,
inclusivity, and meaningful partnerships,
empowering employees and strengthening trust
to build a future–ready with customers, investors,
workforce driven by regulators, and society.
collaboration, agility,
Intellectual Capital
and excellence.
From AI–powered banking to data–driven insights,
we harness technology, automation, and intellectual
expertise to enhance efficiency, security, and
customer experience–staying ahead in the digital era.
Our Stakeholders
Shareholders & Investors Community & NGOs Value Chain Partners
Customers Regulators and Policymakers Rating Agencies
Employees Industry and Peers
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
7
Welcome
to Axis
Bank
8
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
At Axis Bank, we combine our strong legacy with
forward–thinking innovation to deliver meaningful banking
experiences across a rapidly evolving India. Our mission is
to be a customer–first, future–ready institution that builds
financial resilience across society. With a strong presence
across retail, corporate, rural and international banking, we
aim to transform lives, power entrepreneurship, and advance
inclusive growth. Our values — Customer Centricity, Ethics,
Ownership, Transparency, and Teamwork — shape every
interaction and decision.
9
WWeellccoommee ttoo AAxxiiss BBaannkk
ABOUT AXIS BANK
Opening
Vision Purpose
To be the preferred Banking that leads to
the path to
financial services a more inclusive and
provider excelling equitable economy,
collective in customer service a thriving community,
delivery through insight, and a healthier planet
progress empowered employees,
and smart use of
technology
Mission
The Bank is committed To be the preferred financial solutions provider across the
to delivering open, country, delivering customer delight by:
inclusive and
future–ready banking.
Providing A combination Adopting sustainable
Our diversified and innovative of organisational banking practices,
integrated model and intuitive agility, digital particularly
banking solutions capabilities and around ESG and
combines financial
physical reach climate change
strength, innovation
and trust to empower
every stakeholder on
the path to progress. As
Backed by 5 values
‘One Axis’, we serve our
customers across India,
guided by a singular
purpose – to serve every
need on every path, with
Customer Ethics Transparency Teamwork Ownership
sincerity and intent. Centricity
Integrated Business Lines
Retail Banking Wholesale and Offerings through
Commercial Banking ‘One Axis’
10
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
About Axis Bank
Our Purpose Drives our Actions
1 2 3 4 5
We leverage our We continue to We have We aim to improve We strive to
digital leadership to create platforms committed the socio–economic create an inclusive
serve the unbanked for mutual growth, to significant condition and and diverse work
and underbanked which give us investments wellbeing for environment
population in the constant support in sectors that communities across that promotes
country, helping them from our value create positive India, and help the overall
enter the formal chain partners environmental and create new, often wellbeing of our
financial mainstream social impacts unprecedented employees while
opportunities for providing them
economic progress opportunities to
for them grow professionally
Sustainability is deeply ingrained in our organisational philosophy as we move
forward in the three core areas of our GPS strategy.
Deepening a
Performance–driven Culture
Advancing the growth trajectory
of business segments
Improving profitability metrics
Fostering a winning mindset
Building for the Future Strengthening the Core
Digital continues to be an Building a strong balance sheet
area of relentless focus
Building next generation
Core Areas
Bank–wide programs to technology architecture
of our GPS
build distinctiveness
Strategy Organisation–wide
ESG has transformation projects
Bank–wide sponsorship to accelerate our
GPS journey
11
Welcome to Axis Bank
Integrated Business Lines
Axis Bank’s integrated
business lines offer a
comprehensive suite
of customised financial
solutions to individuals,
businesses, and institutions
across India. This unified
approach leverages
digital innovation, domain
expertise, and a strong Retail Banking
physical presence to
holistically serve customers Our retail banking franchise continues to deepen its
connection with individuals, small businesses, and
through every stage of their
Bharat Banking customers by offering a broad spectrum
financial journey.
of personalised solutions through digital banking and
a robust physical network across India.
Products and Services
» Savings and term deposits
» Credit and debit cards
» Retail loans
» Bill payment and forex services
» Wealth management
» Third–party distribution: Insurance, mutual funds,
government bonds
Y–o–Y Performance Highlights
8
%
Retail term deposits
7
%
Retail loan book
16
%
Burgundy Private AUM*
Read more pg. 96
*Includes deposits and assets under advice
12
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Integrated business lines
Wholesale and
Commercial Banking
We continue to serve Indian corporates and
‘One Axis’
MSMEs by leveraging our domain expertise,
Many
transaction banking capabilities, and Possibilities
commitment to digital innovation.
Our relationship–led model is built to deliver
customised financial solutions at every stage
of business growth.
Products and Services
» Corporate and SME loans
Offerings through
» Term deposits and Payments
» Trade finance, Letters of Credit, ‘One Axis’
and Guarantees
» Foreign exchange and Derivatives ‘One Axis’ brings together our full range of
» Cash Management services offerings across our business segments and
subsidiaries, delivering comprehensive and
» Commercial Cards
seamless financial solutions. This integrated
approach allows us to serve customers
holistically — across life stages, business needs,
Y–o–Y Performance Highlights
and aspirations.
8
% Products and Services
Corporate Loans » Investments and broking
» Asset management and insurance
10
% » MSME digital invoice discounting platform
Mid–Corporate loan book
» Trustee services and payments
14
%
SME loan book Performance Highlights
J
3,812
crores
Total investment in subsidiaries
Read more pg. 104 (as on March 31, 2025)
J
10,650
crores
Combined net worth of domestic
subsidiaries (28% y–o–y growth as
on March 31, 2025)
J
1,768
crores
Combined PAT of operating subsidiaries
(11% y–o–y growth for fiscal 2025)
Read more pg. 108
13
Welcome to Axis Bank
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Promoting enduring value
for our stakeholders
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director and
Part–time Chairman
Dear Shareholders,
It is with great pride and optimism that a period of transition, as the India’s moderated growth in fiscal 2025
I present to you Axis Bank’s Integrated long–standing economic framework of reflected a period of prudent fiscal
Annual Report for the financial the past 80 years undergoes a reset. and monetary consolidation. With the
year 2024–25. This year has been a A key element has been the imposition temporary effects of election–related
year of steady progress, thoughtful of tariffs, particularly targeting China, spending pauses now behind us and a
transformation, and continued focus which has disrupted global supply more measured fiscal easing anticipated
on building a resilient and future– chains and increased costs. While some in fiscal 2026, government expenditure
ready institution. Underpinning our tariffs have been partially rolled back, is poised to return to a more normalised
journey has been a strong commitment uncertainty around future trade rules and growth–supportive trajectory,
to sound governance and robust continues to delay investments and setting the stage for a renewed
compliance frameworks–ensuring that tighten financial conditions. Currency momentum. On the monetary front,
our growth is not only sustainable but volatility and geopolitical tensions recent RBI actions—CRR cuts, bond
also responsible. further weigh on global growth. purchases, and liquidity easing—are
Reflecting this uncertainty, the IMF restoring credit flow and supporting
The global economy is in flux as the
has revised its global growth forecast growth. Inflation below 4% has shifted
U.S. undertakes structural shifts
for 2025 downward by 0.5% to 2.8%. policy focus squarely to expansion.
in trade, taxation, and regulation
However, coordinated fiscal action India remains resilient to global shocks,
to address domestic imbalances.
in Europe and China, or resolution with strong services exports, rising
According to the IMF, the global
of major conflicts, could help restore competitiveness in manufacturing,
economy appears to be entering
confidence and economic momentum.
14
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Chairman’s statement
and gains from the “China + 1” strategy. and creating long–term value for our but surpassed this goal—impacting
These structural strengths position customers and stakeholders. In recent ~2.05 million participants across
India for a robust and broad–based years, we have made substantial 300 districts in 32 states and union
economic rebound. strides in reinforcing our governance territories as of March 31, 2025.
architecture and strengthened over In this fiscal alone, we reached
We delivered a consolidated RoA of
risk, audit, and compliance functions. ~0.39 million participants nationwide.
1.77% and RoE of 16.89% in fiscal
Our steadfast commitment to Moreover, we amplified our impact in
2025 and our focus on high RAROC
excellence in corporate governance is the Education theme—expanding Axis
businesses continues to drive healthy
reflected in the rigorous standards we DilSe® to new remote frontiers, forging
growth across our focus segment of
uphold and the comprehensive policies powerful partnerships to strengthen
Small Business Banking, SME, and Mid–
we implement across every dimension education systems, and backing
Corporate, growing 14% y–o–y and
of our operations. cutting–edge research and innovation.
now forming ~23% of our loan book,
up ~740 bps in four years. Our balance At Axis Bank, ESG is deeply embedded Each achievement is a step toward a
sheet remains strong, backed by best– in our strategic vision, with dedicated greater vision—one where opportunity,
in–class asset quality metrics with net structures driving focused action. In equity, and sustainability are accessible
NPA at 0.33% and ₹11,957 crores in 2021, we became the first Indian bank to all. The Bank’s journey is far from
non–NPA provisions. With a CET–1 to establish a standalone Board–level over, and its commitment to creating
ratio of 14.67%, up 93 bps y–o–y ESG Committee, aligning diverse lasting impact has never been stronger.
largely through organic accretion, we priorities under a unified ESG agenda. Guided by the ‘open’ philosophy, we
are well–capitalised to invest in future This Committee met four times in will continue to push boundaries,
growth. Prudent risk management, fiscal 2025, reviewing progress and scale impact, and build a future where
disciplined execution, and strong guiding new initiatives. Our ESG inclusive growth and sustainability go
internal accruals continue to commitments are aligned with the UN hand in hand.
position us well to deliver, Sustainable Development Goals and
As we look ahead, I would like to take
high–quality performance. India’s Paris Agreement commitments.
a moment to acknowledge Mr. Rajiv
We exceeded our ₹30,000 crores
Our customer obsession program, Anand, who will be retiring in August
sustainable wholesale lending target
Sparsh 2.0 is a bold step forward– 2025 after an exceptional 16–year
well ahead of the 2026 deadline,
seamlessly connecting our people– journey with Axis Group. His visionary
consequently, we raised our target
first initiatives to elevate customer leadership has been instrumental in
to ₹60,000 crores by 2030, with
experiences, driving stronger Net shaping our digital and innovative
₹48,412 crores already achieved by
Promoter Score, and unlocking solutions–led franchise. We thank him
March 31, 2025. We continue to
meaningful business growth through for his invaluable contributions and
maintain an exposure to coal and
empathy and excellence. lasting impact on the Bank’s growth
thermal power well within our glide
and culture.
We’re proud to share that Axis Bank path limits. Additionally, as part of our
has once again been rated in the commitment to achieving 30% women Warm regards,
top–tier “Leadership” category in representation in our workforce by
N. S. Vishwanathan
the Indian Corporate Governance fiscal 2027, we are actively scaling up
Scorecard (December 2024) by diverse hiring across all businesses and Independent Director and
IiAS. This recognition reflects our support functions, while launching Part–time Chairman
unwavering commitment to corporate innovative initiatives that truly reflect
governance and regulatory excellence. our organisational values.
The evaluation, based on globally
As a responsible corporate citizen,
benchmarked G20/OECD principles,
we continue to drive meaningful
reaffirms our industry leadership and
impact through our CSR arm, Axis
dedication to the highest standards of
Bank Foundation (ABF), and strategic
accountability and transparency.
partnerships. Since 2018, ABF has been
At Axis Bank, our philosophy is relentlessly driving ‘Mission 2 Million’
anchored in sustainable growth to uplift 2 million households across
India. By fiscal 2025, ABF not only met
15
Welcome to Axis Bank
STRATEGIC PILLARS
Anchored to a sound
strategic framework
Our strategic pillars
serve as the foundation
for sustained growth,
innovation, and
stakeholder value
creation. Anchored in
customer centricity and
digital excellence, they S1
At the core of our distinctiveness lies
guide our journey towards
the ‘One Axis’ ecosystem — a unified
building a stronger, ‘One Axis’ in platform serving diverse business
future–ready institution. needs. By integrating products and
Action
expertise across segments, we deliver
tailored, innovative solutions that
enhance customer experience. This
collective strength drives purposeful
growth, deepens relationships,
and contributes to broader
‘One Axis’ in Action
economic progress.
pg. 108
S2
Our digital–first approach, led by
innovations like ‘open’ and ‘neo’,
Redefining is reshaping banking into a seamless,
Banking in the customer–centric experience.
From instant onboarding to intuitive
Digital–first Era
lending, we are driving strong digital
engagement through continuous
innovation and convenience.
Linked to ‘Banking in the
Multilingual and WhatsApp banking
Digital-first Era’ section in
Customer segment in ‘Har raah features extend our reach, making
dil se open’ – Stakeholder–based banking more inclusive, accessible,
Value Creation and boundaryless.
pg. 126
16
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SSttrraatteeggiicc Ppiillllaarrss
S3
Bharat Banking is central to our strategy of empowering
rural and semi–urban India through tailored financial
Enabling Access,
solutions. By expanding our reach, building strategic
Driving Inclusion
alliances, and leveraging digital innovations, we are making
banking more accessible and impactful. With a strong focus
on risk management and sustainable growth, we are
Linked to Bharat Banking in Customer driving financial inclusion and supporting broader
segment ‘Har raah dil se open’ – socio–economic progress.
Stakeholder–based Value Creation
pg. 130
S4
We further our commitment to nation–building through
strategic partnerships with government bodies at all levels.
Partnering in
By strengthening public finance, infrastructure, and service
Nation–building
delivery, we enable seamless tax collections, Direct Benefit
Transfers, Smart City initiatives, and Digital Agriculture
solutions. The Bank’s work across healthcare, education,
transport, and social welfare activities drives efficient,
transparent, and citizen–focused governance that supports
Linked to For Partners – Government
India’s long–term growth and transformation.
pg. 160
S5
We are guided by a purpose to build thriving communities
by addressing the needs of all stakeholders — customers,
Making a Difference
employees, investors, partners, and society at large.
to the Life of Every
With a focus on customer wellbeing, employee growth,
Stakeholder inclusive culture, and sustainable value creation, we foster
trust, innovation, and long–term relationships. By aligning
our efforts with stakeholder interests, we aim to create
Linked to Customer, Employees, Investors, a resilient, collaborative ecosystem that drives collective
Communities in ‘Har raah dil se open’ – progress and shared prosperity.
Stakeholder–based Value Creation
pgs. 120-163
S6
Our commitment to sustainable banking has positioned us
as a catalyst for environmental welfare within the sector
Embracing the
and beyond. By embedding green practices — from energy
Green Way
procurement and emissions monitoring to eco–friendly
infrastructure — we drive meaningful impact and reduce
our footprint. Through bold initiatives like Mission 2 Million
(now upgraded to planting 8 million trees by 2030) Trees
Linked to Environment segment
‘Har raah dil se open’ – Stakeholder– and innovative conservation efforts, we are setting new
based Value Creation benchmarks in corporate sustainability and advancing
pg. 164
our ESG goals.
17
WWeellccoommee ttoo AAxxiiss BBaannkk
ADVANCING OUR ESG AGENDA
Our action plan for
a greener tomorrow
At Axis Bank, value creation
is rooted in sustainable
growth that benefits all
As a responsible financial inclusive banking, or climate–aligned
stakeholders. Guided by our institution, we recognise the products, we continuously adapt to
openness to dialogue, our urgency of climate action and meet stakeholder interests, regulatory
are committed to being part of imperatives, and global sustainability
responsibility, and the impact
the solution. Our climate action standards. Regular updates to our
we create, our ESG strategy
plan is future–focused — aimed Board’s ESG Committee ensure
is anchored in strong at reducing risk, enabling green sustained oversight and accountability
governance and shaped by growth, and building long–term as we work towards a greener,
resilience across our operations. fairer future.
stakeholder priorities.
In fiscal 2025, we deepened
this commitment by actively
Key Issues Addressed by
contributing to national and global
the Bank’s Climate
climate and development goals,
Action Plan
aligning our actions with the UN
SDGs and India’s Paris Agreement
» Expanding environmental and
commitments as outlined in the
social risk assessment of our
updated Nationally Determined
overall portfolio
Contributions (NDCs). Under the
guidance of our ESG Committee, » Scaling up climate risk
we continued to channel capital assessment at the enterprise
towards promoting inclusive level through climate stress
growth while accelerating the testing and scenario analysis
Material Issues Linkage transition to a low–carbon and » Reducing our operational
M2 M8 M10 climate–resilient economy. carbon footprint
» Scaling up our environmental
Our ESG–aligned
initiatives under CSR,
Capital Linkage
Commitments supporting climate
adaptation, mitigation,
Introduced in 2021, our and resilience
ESG–aligned commitments are
» Scaling up our lending to
central to how we do business
SDGs Impacted positive impact sectors
today. We actively design financial
(Wholesale & Retail)
solutions that serve the dual
purpose of enabling growth and
» Scaling down our exposure
to carbon–intensive sectors
driving impact. Whether through
sustainable financing,
18
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Advancing our ESG agenda
Progress to ESG–aligned goals
Progress as of Progress as of Progress as of
Our Commitment Unit Capital Impacted
March 2023 March 2024 March 2025
Incremental financing of Cumulative ₹20,400 ₹30,409
₹30,000 crores under Wholesale Exposure crores crores
(Target
Banking to sectors with positive
achieved)
social and environmental outcomes
by fiscal 2026
Incremental financing of ₹60,000 Cumulative Not Applicable Not Applicable ₹48,412 Cr.
Exposure (Sanctioned)
crores under Wholesale Banking
to sectors with positive social and
environmental outcomes, by fiscal
2030 from fiscal 2021
Making 5% of our Retail EV% as a 2.52% 3.62%
share of the
Two–wheeler (2W) loan portfolio
TW loan
electric by fiscal 2024 portfolio
Increasing share of electric vehicle Penetration in Not Applicable Not Applicable 7.14%
revenue (₹) in Two–wheeler financial year penetration for
two–wheeler
loan portfolio – 6% by fiscal 2027**
2.92%
Increasing share of electric vehicle penetration for
revenue (₹) in Four–wheeler (4W) four–wheeler
passenger loan portfolio
– 4% by fiscal 2027**
Scaling down exposure to Progress on Exposure Exposure Exposure
carbon–intensive sectors, Glide Path below below below
fiscal 2023 fiscal 2024 fiscal 2025
including coal and thermal power
targeted cap targeted cap targeted cap
Reaching 30% women's Overall 25.7% 25.0% 27.7%
diversity ratio
representation in our workforce
by fiscal 2027
Planting 2 million trees by fiscal Saplings ~0.83 million ~1.33 million ~3.27 million
planted saplings saplings trees planted
2027 across India as part of our
planted planted (including target
contribution to creating a of 2 million tree
carbon sink# plantations,
Miyawaki
plantations
and other tree
plantation
programs)
(Target
achieved)
Represents new commitments made during the year
** Penetration target for each fiscal year in 4W and 2W segments respectively
# Target of planting 2 million trees has been upgraded during March 2025 to planting 8 million trees by 2030
19
Welcome to Axis Bank
PRESENCE
Facilitating banking,
anytime, anywhere
Our extensive network
of branches and ATMs
spans India’s metros to its
distant corners. Through
a calibrated expansion Physical Reach Internationally, our offices in Singapore,
Dubai (DIFC) and GIFT City, along
strategy and strong
Our branch network spans with representative offices in the UAE
presence in rural and 5,879 locations and 3,194 cities , (Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah) and
semi–urban India, strategically covering urban, rural Bangladesh (Dhaka), enable us to serve
and semi–urban (RuSu) India. In fisca l global Indian businesses and NRIs
we continue to serve
2025, we added 500 new branches. with seamless, borderless banking.
individuals, MSMEs,
This calibrated expansion supports We continue to bring banking closer
farmers, corporates our Bharat Banking strategy, with to communities, businesses, and
and entrepreneurs with RuSu branches operating on an aspirations–across India and beyond.
asset–led liability model and Platinum
customised, locally relevant
branches serving Small Banking
financial solutions.
Business (SBB) customers.
Scale Reach
5,879 3,194
Domestic branches including Cities served
Material Issues Linkage extension counters and (previous year: 2,963)
M6 M7 M9 3 digital banking units
692
(previous year: 5,380)
152 Districts covered
Capital Linkage
89
Specialised branches %
13,941 Districts in India covered by the
Bank’s branch and correspondent
ATMs and cash deposit/ network
SDGs Impacted
withdrawal machines
234
Business correspondence
banking outlets
20
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Presence
Branch Profile Phygital Engagement
Region–wise Distribution Our virtual engagement channels
make banking personalised, proactive,
30 23 29 18 and frictionless, bridging online ease
% % % %
with human empathy. We have made
it our mission to remain ‘open’ through
Metro Urban Semi–urban Rural
physical branches and every screen,
tap and conversation.
Geography–wise Distribution
33 23 21 23 8
% % % %
North South East West Axis Virtual Centres
(AVCs) nationwide
Designed for India 1,700
» RuSu branches: Asset–light models to serve bottomless rural India
Virtual Relationship
» Platinum branches: Focused on Small Banking Business (SBB) customers Managers
» Inclusive infrastructure: Tailored for older people, women, and customers ~106
million
with disabilities
Aha! Conversations
in fiscal 2025
Digital Banking
Our digital banking ecosystem delivers real–time, seamless, and secure
financial experiences to millions. With significant investments in technology WhatsApp Banking
and innovation, we are bringing end–to–end banking solutions to customers’ D
191
fingertips–reducing turnaround time and enhancing efficiency for both crores
individuals and businesses. Fixed deposits booked
via WhatsApp in
~3 71 fiscal 2025
crores %
Registered customer base for Mobile banking customers banking 40
mobile banking only on mobile application
Product journeys
now entirely digitised
~15 4.8
million
Non Axis Bank customers using Rating of mobile application on
Axis Mobile & Axis Pay apps Apple app store
With over 30 million registered
users, WhatsApp has become a key
250 4.7 touchpoint in our digital journey .
+
Fully integrated with Axis Aha! Our
DIY services available on the Rating of mobile application on
chatbot platform supports fixed
mobile application Google play store
deposit bookings, card services, loan
requests; Real–time transactions and
₹25.7 8.7 balance checks; Smart Frequently
trillion billion
Asked Questions (FAQ) handling
Mobile banking spends Mobile banking transactions
powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI).
20% y–o–y 36% y–o–y
21
Welcome to Axis Bank
MILESTONES
Moments that shaped our journey
Our story is inextricably linked to India’s transformation. From our early beginnings,
when we began operations as UTI Bank Ltd. in April 1994—among the first private
sector banks set up under the 1993 RBI guidelines, issued in line with the government’s
policy on financial sector reforms—to becoming one of the country’s largest private
banks, our journey reflects a spirit of resilience, innovation, and openness.
1990s
1994 1997
Incorporated as Deposits cross
UTI Bank ₹1,000 crores
1995 1999
First branch in » Oversubscribed IPO;
Ahmedabad inaugurated over 1 lakh retail investors
by Dr. Manmohan Singh,
» Launched website:
Union Finance Minister
www.utibank.com
2002
Crossed 100 branches
2003
Launched ‘Corporate iConnect’,
an internet banking facility for
corporate customers
2004
7,000+ ATM access enabled via
shared networks
2005
Listed on London Stock Exchange,
raised $257.03 million through
Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs)
s0002
2008
Renamed as Axis Bank
22
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Milestones
2024
» Celebrated the
opening of our
5,000th branch
in Ahmedabad
» The 4th largest
credit card issuer
in India
2020
Raised ₹12,500 crores
via one of the largest
private QIPs
2010 2015
Shikha Sharma was appointed First all–women branch
MD & CEO in Patna
2011 2017
» Acquired Enam Securities’ Issued Asia’s first certified
investment banking Green Bond ($500 mn)
and equity capital
2018
market business
» Launched online trading Opened IFSC Banking Unit
platform, Axis Direct at GIFT City
2013 2019
Opened 10,000th ATM Amitabh Chaudhry
appointed MD & CEO
s0102
2020s
A Decade of 2021
2025
Acceleration
Strategic partnership
The Bank redefined with Max Life Insurance Migration of
scale, inclusion, and 2 million+
innovation in this 2022
Citibank India
decade. From strategic
» Announced consumers to Axis acquisitions to
#ComeAsYouAre, a Bank systems ESG–first bonds,
charter of policies
every step reflects Axis Bank unveils
for employees and
our commitment to ‘Har raah dil se
customers from the
‘Har raah dil se open’. open’ showcasing
LGBTQIA+ community
the power of
» Raised $600 million 100k+ dil se
through India’s first open bankers
ESG–compliant
Sustainable AT1 Bond
2023
Completed acquisition
of Citibank India’s
Consumer Business
The years in the milestone section represent the respective financial year ending on March 31 23
Welcome to Axis Bank
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE
A resilient foundation
laid with trust
Our well–balanced
ownership structure and
Our ownership structure exhibits Under the ‘One Axis’ approach,
strategic business mix
the trust of Institutional investors, we deliver an integrated customer
set us apart. Through our
mutual funds, retail, and domestic experience across the financial
subsidiaries, platforms, and Institutional shareholders. lifecycle. The Bank and its subsidiaries
partnerships, we cater to This broad–based shareholding collaborate seamlessly to
enables independent governance cross–leverage their strengths,
the financial needs of our
and sustained value creation while offering bundled solutions from
diverse customer base.
upholding the highest standards of banking to equity broking, mutual
transparency and stewardship. funds, insurance, advisory services,
and corporate financing.
Our subsidiaries operate as
strong strategic levers, enabling As of March 31, 2025, the Bank’s total
us to provide a comprehensive paid–up equity share capital stood at
suite of services across lending, ₹619.47 crores, comprising ₹309.74
wealth management, investments, crores fully paid equity shares of
insurance, and digital distribution. ₹2 each.
Shareholding Pattern (As on March 31, 2025) (%)
Foreign Institutional Life Insurance
Investors Corporation of India
42.48 7.91
39.52 3.33 6.76
Indian GDR’s Others
Institutions
24
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Ownership structure
‘One Axis’ Ecosystem Strategic Synergies under ‘One Axis’
The Bank’s subsidiary portfolio
Cross–sell across the Bank’s Integrated offerings spanning
reflects the strength of our universal
5,000+ branches and investments, protection, lending,
banking model. It offers diversified
digital channels and advisory
financial solutions catering to the
entire customer spectrum, from large
corporations and MSMEs to retail
End–to–end journeys enabled Focus on profitability, customer
investors and deposit holders.
through API integrations and stickiness, and product
Each subsidiary plays a specialised
common CRM platforms bouquet deepening
role while remaining strategically
aligned to the ‘One Axis’ philosophy.
Ownership of Key Subsidiaries and Associate (as on March 31, 2025)
Subsidiary/Associate Axis Bank Holding (%) Core Business Segment Fiscal 2025 Highlights Market Positioning
Axis Finance Ltd. 100% Consumer–focused ₹676 crores PAT; AAA rated NBFC with
Non–Banking Finance 11% y–o–y diversified product
(NBFC) offerings
Axis Securities Ltd. 100% Retail Brokerage ₹419 crores PAT; 3rd largest
39% y–o–y bank–led brokerage firm
Axis Capital Ltd. 100% Investment Banking ₹161 crores PAT; Leadership position in ECM
7% y–o–y deals segment
Axis Asset Management 75% Mutual Fund & PMS ₹501 crores PAT; One of the fastest growing
Company Ltd. 21% y–o–y MF player
Axis Trustee Services Ltd. 100% Trustee Services Assets under custody at Amongst the leading trustees
₹47,447 billion in India
22% y–o–y
Axis Max Life Insurance Ltd. 19.02%1 Life Insurance ~₹79.06 crores share 4th largest private insurance
(Associate) of PAT company
Axis Pension Fund 47% 2 Assets Management 303% y–o–y Leading Pension Fund
Management Ltd.
Registered AUM
against industry
51% y–o–y
Freecharge Payment 100% Fintech Platform Freecharge Payment One of the major fintech
Technologies Private Ltd. Gateway (FCPG) GMV players in India
108% y–o–y
A.TReDS Ltd. 67% TReDS (discounting) 14 lakh+ Invoices Leading player on TReDs
Platform discounted platform
1. Position as on March 31, 2025 and including stakes owned by Axis Capital and Axis Securities
2. Effective stake held by Axis Group in step down subsidiary
Above are figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
25
Welcome to Axis Bank
OPERATING LANDSCAPE
Staying ahead in
The Bank operates in a dynamic business
environment, competing with large private
a dynamically
and public sector banks, nimble digital
challengers, and non–banking
evolving financial institutions. We remain
differentiated through scale, discipline,
environment and purpose–led innovation in this
fast–moving ecosystem.
With a diversified model, strong capital base, and deep digital integration, we continue to grow responsibly,
strengthen profitability, and deepen customer engagement.
Positioned for Progress in a Dynamic Environment
Global Economic Backdrop Indian Economy & Banking Sector
Fiscal 2025 unfolded against a backdrop of subdued Unlike global trends, India remained a bright spot with estimated
global momentum. Advanced economies grappled GDP growth of 6.5% in fiscal 2026. Sustained demand from
with persistent inflation, high interest rates, and tight rural areas, an anticipated revival in urban consumption,
liquidity, prompting cautious capital deployment and expected recovery of fixed capital formation supported by
slower credit expansion. The swift escalation of trade increased government capital expenditure, higher capacity
tensions and extremely high levels of policy uncertainty utilisation, and healthy balance sheets of corporates and banks
are expected to have a significant impact on global are expected to support growth. Domestic consumption,
economic activity, posing new headwinds for global infrastructure–led investments, and financial formalisation
growth and inflation. Global growth is projected to continued to fuel banking sector growth, particularly in retail,
drop to 3% in 2026, financial markets remain sensitive secured lending, and MSMEs. Simultaneously, competition
to geopolitical tensions, supply chain disruptions, and intensified, driven by a maturing fintech ecosystem, NBFC
diverging monetary policies. innovations, and digital–first challenger models. UPI volumes,
AI–enabled credit, and embedded finance redefine how services
are delivered and consumed.
Regulatory Landscape The Bank’s Strategic Positioning
Fiscal 2025 marked a significant regulatory pivot toward The Bank remains strongly positioned to navigate this
risk sensitivity, digital integrity, and sustainability. The evolving environment. With a well–diversified credit
RBI tightened norms on unsecured lending, enhanced portfolio, robust liability engine, and 96%+ digital
supervision of digital journeys, and released draft transaction penetration, the Bank is focused on delivering
frameworks on climate–related financial disclosures. sustainable, risk–aware growth. Through the ‘One Axis’
Concurrently, SEBI mandated BRSR Core assurance, and ecosystem, the Bank integrates banking with insurance,
the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act was investments, broking, and capital markets, serving
enacted to strengthen data privacy rights. Regulatory customers across geographies and segments. Our calibrated
bodies are now setting the tone for integrated, approach to compliance, technology, and
forward–looking governance. customer–centricity keeps opportunities open for us across
every economic cycle.
26
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Operating landscape
What’s Reshaping Indian Banking
Trend What’s Changing Strategic Implication
We continue to expand our focus
MSMEs, secured retail loans, and
segments with calibrated growth in
housing finance drive credit growth
secured lending and deeper
amid policy support and
penetration in semi–urban and
Formal Credit Expansion demand revival.
rural markets.
We have improved the granularisation in
Tight liquidity and elevated rates our deposit book and the quality of LCR
have intensified competition for deposits through targeted acquisitions,
Deposit Mobilisation granular deposits. product launches, salary credits, and
Pressure CASA deepening across Bharat branches.
RBI and SEBI introduced new We have proactively enhanced
frameworks on unsecured lending, governance, upgraded risk models, and
ESG disclosures (BRSR Core), and data embedded compliance–by–design across
Regulatory Tightening protection (DPDP Act). digital and ESG processes.
With 96%+ digital transactions and
UPI, mobile onboarding, and API GenAI–powered tools like Adi, neo
ecosystems are now the default and ‘Siddhi’ we continue to lead in
Digital–first channels for financial engagement. delivering intuitive, secure, and intelligent
Consumer Behaviour customer journeys.
Through Sustainable bonds, lending to
Climate risk is becoming integral ESG positive sectors, and an in–house
to credit assessment and ESG Rating model for borrower–level
Climate and Sustainability disclosure mandates. risk review, we are future–proofing our
Integration portfolio with responsibility.
We are building an open, API–led,
GenAI, credit scoring algorithms, and
AI–enabled ecosystem—integrating our
open architecture reshape product
offerings into platforms, partners, and
Rise of AI and delivery and underwriting.
everyday financial flows.
Embedded Finance
27
Welcome to Axis Bank
Competitive Advantages as on/for the year ended March 31, 2025
Metric Axis Bank Our Competitive Positioning Commentary
Total Assets ₹16.10 lakh crores 3rd largest private bank in India
Net Advances 8% y–o–y Balanced growth with stable asset quality
Retail Loan 7% y–o–y 60% share of book
CASA Ratio 41% Among the best–in–class across peer private sector banks
NIM 3.98% Sustained margins driven by better mix
Net NPA 0.33% Among the lowest across peer banks
Consolidated ROE 16.89% Competitive profitability
Credit Cards CIF ~14% market share 4th largest issuer
UPI Payer PSP Share ~33% Strong position
POS Acquiring 2nd rank Market share in POS terminals – ~20%;
Leader in Android SmartPOS
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
28
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Operating landscape
What Differentiates Us
The Bank’s competitive strength lies in its ability to blend scale with service, technology with trust, and
strategy with social consciousness. In a market that is crowded with financial choices, we stand apart for
our openness to possibilities, partnerships, and progress.
Ecosystem Partnerships that Unlock New Frontiers
We co–create digital journeys with some of India’s most trusted names, including Flipkart, Airtel,
Indian Oil and CSCs, embedding the Bank into the daily lives of individuals, entrepreneurs, and
communities. Our open architecture, API stack, and fintech collaborations keep us ahead in
embedded banking.
Deeper Financial Inclusion through Bharat Outreach
Our calibrated RuSu strategy has expanded the Bank’s footprint into India’s hinterlands. With
over 2,736 Bharat Banking branches, 28,000+ CSC entrepreneurs, and a strong network of
Business Correspondents, we enable access to formal finance where it matters most.
Digital Intelligence that Empowers People
Our technology is designed to transact and transform. Platforms like ‘Adi’ (a GenAI chatbot for
employees), ‘neo’ (a GenAI–powered corporate banking tool), and digital transaction adoption
are helping us scale personalised, frictionless, and future–ready banking.
A Risk–Aware, Responsible Approach to Growth
We lead with integrity, backed by robust governance, Board–level risk oversight, and an
enterprise-wide compliance culture. Understanding and implementing measures to mitigate
macroeconomic, regulatory, and customer–level risks drives our business growth.
‘One Axis’, a Unified Financial Services Platform
With 100% or majority ownership in subsidiaries spanning NBFC lending, broking, investment
banking, AMC, and insurance, our ‘One Axis’ model offers seamless, full–spectrum financial
solutions from wealth to working capital and coverage credit.
29
Welcome to Axis Bank
30
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
Marketing Initiatives
Building the
most loved
brand
31
Welcome to Axis Bank
32
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
Marketing Initiatives
Axis Bank's commitment to being warm, open, positive,
caring, and empathetic has become our key differentiator.
Our campaign, ‘Har raah dil se open’, celebrates over
100,000 dedicated employees who drive consumer
satisfaction and delight. Through five compelling films,
we showcased the unseen efforts of our employees
in supporting the dreams and aspirations of diverse
customer segments: salaried individuals, senior citizens,
start–ups, corporates, HNIs, and customers from rural and
semi–urban India. This campaign truly highlights the heart
and soul of Axis Bank.
33
Welcome to Axis Bank
Dil Se Open
This year at Axis Bank, we celebrated the
festive season across regions, embracing
the unique traditions of Ganesh Utsav,
Onam, Navratri, and Diwali. Building
on the insight that festival–inspired
goodness fades away once festivities
end, we launched our campaign
#AchhaiKabhiRukniNahiChahiye to
encourage customers to carry this spirit
into everyday life, positioning our credit
card not just as a celebration tool but as
an enabler of everyday goodness.
Achh.ai
This festive season, we introduced ACHH.
AI–a first–of–its–kind platform designed to
make celebrations smarter, more rewarding,
and truly meaningful. Harnessing the
power of Generative AI, ACHH.AI brought
consumers a curated selection of the best
Axis Bank offers, revolutionising how they
discover deals across shopping, travel,
dining, and more. With a sleek, easy–to–use
microsite, finding the perfect offer was just
a click away. But ACHH.AI wasn’t just about
amazing deals — it also inspired thoughtful
gifting and sustainable choices, reminding
everyone that while celebrations may come
and go, kindness and meaningful gestures
leave a lasting impact.
34
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Marketing Initiatives
Burgundy Private Experiences are a selection
of exclusive money–can’t–buy events crafted
for the discerning Burgundy Private client.
In fiscal 2025, we curated 18 events across
5+ cities, engaging over 1,200 clients. Aligned
with the UHNI pillars of arts, culture, lifestyle,
and insights, these experiences were created
in collaboration with renowned partners such
as BookMyShow, NMACC, MAP and ASIC,
among others. These thoughtfully designed
engagements have significantly deepened
client relationships, further reinforcing
Burgundy Private’s standing as a leading
name in the world of private banking.
Splash
Axis Bank SPLASH, an annual art competition
for kids to unleash their creativity a
imagination, received an overwhelming
response from customers. The campaign,
guided by our dil se open philosophy,
embraced the theme of ‘Gratitude’ this year,
encouraging young minds to appreciate
positive influences in their lives.
The campaign achieved remarkable success
with nearly 1 million registrations, engaging
over 3,300 schools, 450 RWAs/Clubs, 500+
partner outlets and all our branches.
35
Welcome to Axis Bank
Our heartfelt campaign beautifully captured the tender emotion of a mothe r
celebrating her daughter’s new job. It revealed how, even in a moment o f
personal joy, a mother’s thoughts instinctively turn to her child’s future .
Through this simple yet powerful moment, we highlighted how a mother’s
trust in Fixed Deposits is born from pure love and a deep desire to secure a
safe and prosperous future for her child.
36
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Marketing Initiatives
We launched a heartwarming campaign that brought to life a familiar, endearing
quirk of fathers—the ever–present “thumbs up” in chat conversations. The
narrative captured an emotional moment when a daughter’s decision to invest
in Fixed Deposits earned her father’s silent yet powerful approval, expressed
through a burst of heart emojis. Through this simple and relatable story,
we highlighted the deep sense of trust, pride, and security that Fixed Deposits
represent for Indian families.
37
Welcome to Axis Bank
Sanskrit
Password
On Independence Day, we launched
#SanskritPassword, a unique campaign that
combined cyber security innovation with India’s
rich cultural legacy. Through sanskritpassword.
com, we introduced a smarter and stronger
password system that leverages the complexity
and uniqueness of Sanskrit – one of the world’s
oldest and least commonly used languages today.
By tapping into Sanskrit’s grammatical richness
and unfamiliarity in the digital space, we offered
users a highly secure alternative to conventional
passwords, making it far more resistant to
modern hacking tools. This initiative positioned
Sanskrit not just as a cultural symbol but as a
groundbreaking solution for next–generation
cyber security.
38
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Marketing Initiatives
Devanagari PIN
We are constantly innovating to make banking safer and more personal
for our customers. This Republic Day, we introduced #DevanagariPIN —
a new way to create secure, personalised PINs by converting any word
into a unique numeric code using the Devanagari script. Through a simple
microsite, customers could enter any word and instantly generate a
secure PIN. By moving away from predictable choices like birthdays, this
initiative not only offered a smarter approach to digital security but also
celebrated India’s rich linguistic heritage.
Personal
Loan Fraud
Awareness
During Fraud Awareness Week, we launched a
campaign to raise awareness about a growing
digital threat – Instant Personal Loan App Fraud.
Our campaign highlighted how unverified loan apps
lure users with promises of quick, easy loans, while
secretly exploiting mobile permissions to access
personal and confidential information.
By illustrating these hidden risks, we aimed to
drive awareness about the importance of managing
app permissions carefully and downloading
only from verified sources – because ultimately
#PermissionMatters.
39
Welcome to Axis Bank
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Governance rooted in responsibility
The Board at Axis Bank is the cornerstone of responsible governance. With expertise across
financial services, risk, technology, and public policy, it ensures our strategy is future–focused
and anchored in integrity, compliance, and transparency. The Board’s insight shapes a
governance framework that safeguards stakeholder interests, upholds regulatory excellence,
and drives long–term value creation.
N. S. Vishwanathan Amitabh Chaudhry Girish Paranjpe Meena Ganesh G. Padmanabhan
Independent Director Managing Director & Independent Independent Independent
and part–time Chairman CEO Director Director Director
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev P. N. Prasad CH. S. S. Mallikarjunarao Mini Ipe Pranam Wahi
Independent Independent Independent Non–Executive Independent
Director Director Director Nominee Director Director
Rajiv Anand Subrat Mohanty Munish Sharda
Deputy Managing Executive Executive
Director Director Director
(as on April 24, 2025)
40
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board of directors | Core management team
CORE MANAGEMENT TEAM
Driving strategy with integrity
and precision
The Bank’s Core Management Team brings together deep domain expertise across finance,
risk, operations, and technology. United by a shared commitment to integrity, agility, and
customer–centricity, and guided by strategic foresight, the Team helps the Bank navigate
through a dynamic business environment and regulatory shifts.
Arjun Chowdhry Balaji N
Group Executive – Affluent Banking, Retail Lending, President – Business Intelligence Unit
Cards & Payments
Neeraj Gambhir Bimal Bhattacharyya
Group Executive – Treasury & Markets and President & Group Chief Audit Executive
Wholesale Banking Products
Prashant Joshi Damini Marwah
Group Executive & Chief Credit Officer President – Legal and Chief Ethics Officer
Puneet Sharma Kartik Bangalore
Group Executive & Chief Financial Officer President – Conglomerates & Large
Corporates Segment
Vijay Mulbagal Rajkamal Vempati
Group Executive – Strategic Program & Sustainability President – Human Resources
Amit Talgeri Reynold D’souza
President & Group Chief Risk Officer President – Branch Banking – North
Anuranjan Kumar Rohit Ranjan
President & Group Chief Compliance Officer President – LAP & Affordable Home Loans
Anil Agarwal Sameer Shetty
President – Financial Institutions Group & PSU President – Digital Business and Transformation
and Govt. Coverage Group
Arnika Dixit Sanjeev Moghe
President – Cards & Wealth Businesses President – Branch Banking – South
Arvind Singla Sandeep Poddar
President – Retail Operations Company Secretary
Avinash Raghavendra
President – Information Technology
(as on April 24, 2025)
41
Value
creation
by the Bank
42
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Axis Bank creates long–term value by aligning its strategy
with stakeholder needs and the priorities of a dynamic,
developing India. Our business model transforms financial
and non–financial resources into impactful financial
products, services, and digital experiences that advance
inclusion, innovation, and sustainability. By staying agile,
responsible, and future–ready, we continue to generate
meaningful outcomes for our customers, communities,
employees, and shareholders. This approach not only
enhances performance and trust but also reinforces our role
in supporting India’s economic and social transformation.
43
Value creation by the bank
VALUE CREATION MODEL
Blueprint for sustainable value creation
The Bank’s business model reflects of financial capital shown in the performance in financial strength,
our steadfast commitment to creating standalone and consolidated financial digital leadership, social impact, and
long–term, value for all stakeholders. statements of the Bank and ‘off– environmental responsibility. We aim to
We channel diverse forms of capital balance sheet’ or ‘hidden’ capital, deliver future–ready solutions, deepen
into sustainable growth outcomes, such as the institutional knowledge of inclusion, and embed sustainability
aligning purpose with performance. the Bank, the reputation it has built throughout our business.
At the heart of this model lies our over the years, and the strength of This approach embodies our
brand promise, ‘Har raah dil se open’, its relationships with stakeholders. commitment to being open to all
symbolising our openness to people, The Bank harnesses and transforms stakeholders, opportunities, and
partnerships, progress and the planet. these inputs through its strategy, possibilities for long–term, sustainable
Guided by our Vision, Mission and business model, and operations to value creation.
Values. We endeavour to understand generate outputs (e.g., loans, digital
stakeholder needs and societal transactions, products) and outcomes Output
expectations and drive strategic action. (e.g., stakeholder value, financial
Outputs are the direct and tangible
performance, societal impact). The
results of the Bank’s business
Capitals efficiency, quality, and sustainability
operations, including products
with which an organisation utilises its
As defined by the <IR> Framework, delivered, services provided, customer
inputs significantly influence long–term
capitals are the key resources and interactions, and digital engagements.
performance, capital appreciation
relationships an organisation draws They signify what we generate
or depletion, stakeholder trust, and
upon to create, deliver, and sustain by effectively utilising inputs and
risk resilience.
value over time. These include financial executing on our strategic priorities.
resources, physical and technological These outputs stem from our core
Value Driver Activities
assets, human skills and capabilities, value driver activities and are
institutional knowledge, stakeholder A clearly defined strategic intent drives influenced by our Mission, Vision,
relationships, and natural ecosystems. Axis Bank’s value creation process Values, stakeholder expectations,
Together, these form the foundation Our Vision, Mission, and Values, and decisions informed by
of an organisation’s ability to operate, focused on customer centricity, risk considerations.
innovate, and grow responsibly. ethics, ownership, transparency, and
Nevertheless, outputs by themselves
teamwork aid this process. Grounded
The Framework outlines six do not indicate long–term success.
in our purpose, we utilise diverse
capitals–Financial, Manufactured, They pave the way for broader
inputs across six capitals to fuel our
Intellectual, Human, Social and outcomes and lasting impacts on our
business operations. These operations
Relationship, and Natural–to stakeholders and the six capitals.
constitute the core of Axis Bank.
encourage integrated thinking across For instance, a loan (output) fosters
Our understanding of the external
all dimensions of value. Evaluating Axis financial inclusion (outcome); a digital
environment, identifying key issues,
Bank through this framework enables onboarding process boosts customer
and proactive stakeholder engagement
a holistic understanding of how we satisfaction; and the issuance of a
help us stay agile and responsive amid
deploy resources, manage trade–offs, green bond can support emissions
dynamic conditions.
and generate long–term outcomes for reduction by industry. Thus, through
our stakeholders, aligning with With a strong strategy and resource our value driver activities, outputs
our purpose, vision, and mission. allocation underpinned by integrated serve as pathways that convert
risk management, we transform strategy into action and action into
Inputs these inputs into outputs that yield impact, bridging the gap between what
sustainable results. These results we do and why it is significant, aligning
Inputs represent the foundation
enhance the value of our capitals with our purpose of creating lasting,
of the value creation process for
over time, as demonstrated by our sustainable value for everyone.
the year. Input capitals comprise
44
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Value creation model
Outcome outcomes reflect the deeper value For instance, when a loan is provided
generated for stakeholders: financial (an output), it transforms into an
Outcomes represent the long–term
inclusion, customer trust, employee outcome if it aids a small growth of
impacts of the Bank’s outputs,
development, community wellbeing, business or helps an individual attain
illustrating how our products,
environmental sustainability, and financial security. This outcome
services, and actions influence the
systemic resilience. promotes long–term value creation
creation, preservation or erosion of
across customers, communities,
the six capitals over time. Outputs Our value driver activities allow us to
investors, employees,
indicate the immediate results of our create and sustain value for the Bank
and the environment.
business operations. At the same time, and society.
We have mapped the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to our six–capital model to align
Mapping SDGs
our value creation process with global priorities and ensure that our business contributes
with capitals
meaningfully to inclusive, equitable, and sustainable development. This integration helps us
demonstrate how using and enhancing the six capitals supports broader societal outcomes.
Value Creation in Action
Our value creation model comes to life through everyday stories where strategy and purpose intersect. By applying
integrated thinking across the six capitals, we transform inputs into meaningful outcomes, yielding financial profits along
with societal and environmental benefits. The following case study illustrates how one such intervention generates
lasting value.
A 32–year–old small business owner based in Nashik, looking to switch to an electric vehicle (EV) to reduce
Case study
fuel expenses and expand delivery services.
Input (Capitals Utilised): We Value Driver Activities: Output: Timely, Outcome: A single loan
deploy resources across 6 Strategic actions convert digital–first delivery transforms lives, climate,
capitals for disbursement of potential into progress creates immediate value and capital
EV loans
» Risk–adjusted pricing for » Disbursement of EV loan » Bank earns through
» Financial Capital: Lending EV loans » Paperless journey optimal pricing on loans
corpus allocated to » Climate–aligned » Bank achieves EV » Adds e–commerce
EV segment product innovation lending milestone delivery to the
» Human Capital: Trained » Customer obsession business, resulting in
frontline staff initiative ‘Sparsh’ enables income growth
» Intellectual Capital: personalised guidance » Community sees rise in
Data analytics for » ESG–linked lending goals EV adoption
customer targeting » Stakeholder engagement » Bank advances
» Manufactured Capital: with Customer, OEMs climate target through
Branch Banking and regulators EV penetration
outlet & digital » Contributes to SDG
onboarding platform 7 (Affordable Clean
» Social and Relationship Energy), 13 (Climate
Capital: Partnership Action), 8 (Decent Work)
with EV dealership, local
financial literacy workshop
» Natural Capital:
commitment to lending
to sectors that can avoid
carbon emissions
45
Value creation by the bank
Value creation model
Material
Our Capitals Input Value Driver Activities Outcomes Risk UN SDGs
Issues
M1
» Shareholders funds – ₹1,786.17 billion » Total Assets size – ₹16,099.30 billion
M3
» Total deposits – ₹11,729.52 billion » Operating profit – ₹421.05 billion
» Total borrowings – ₹1,841.47 billion » CRAR – 17.07%
M4 Financial » Net NPA – 0.33%
Capital Our Vision » Consolidated RoA – 1.77%
M15 To be the preferred financial » Consolidated RoE – 16.89%
services provider excelling in
» New branches and banking outlets customer service delivery through
opened in fiscal 2025 – 500 insight, empowered employees, &
» ~56 million Individual customers
» Lending in RuSu markets (Bharat Banking smart use of technology
» 7% y–o–y growth in Rural Advances M6 branches – 2,736) to complement » Domestic reach – 692 districts across Manufactured PSL strategy 28 states and 7 union territories M7 Capital » ATMs and cash deposit/withdrawal » Average monthly customers
machines – 13,941 connected through AVCs – 9.2 million
M9 » International branches and
representative offices – 11
» Axis Virtual Centres – 8
» Future–proofing our portfolio with
responsibility with in–house ESG Rating
» ESG issuances under the Sustainable model for borrower–level risk review
M5 Financing Framework » Top rated mobile banking with
» 23% y-o-y increase in investment 15 million MAU (monthly active users) M7 in technology » UPI transaction value increased by Intellectual » Best–in–class UPI stack 54% y–o–y Capital » Dedicated digital team » 91% service requests done digitally
Our Purpose Our Values
Banking that leads to a more » Customer Centricity » Certified again as Great Place to
» Total employee count – 1,04,453 inclusive and equitable economy, » Ethics Work® (GPTW)
M11 » Staff cost – ₹121.93 billion a thriving community, and a » Transparency » Profit per employee – ₹0.25 crores » Target 30% female representation in healthier planet » 6 million+ total learning hours
Human workforce by fiscal 2027 » Teamwork of employees
M13
Capital » Learning and training initiatives » Ownership » Total GIGA employees – 2,544
» Axis GIGA 2.0 – Working from anywhere
M1
» ‘Siddhi’ App empowering employees » Total number of customers ~59 million
to engage with customers » CSR participants – ~10 lakh lives
M2 » Funding to on CSR programs positively impacted in this fiscal
Social & – ₹4.27 billion » 27 Smart Cities where Bank delivered
M9 Relationship » Nation building partnerships services to assist civic administration
» Customer obsession program » Retail NPS Score – 159
Capital
M10 – Sparsh on baseline of 100
» Energy intensity per rupee adjusted
» Total energy consumption – 825.5 TJ for PPP – 0.0000118 (GJ/₹)
M8
» Renewable energy as part of total » Energy used from renewable sources
energy consumption – 72.48 TJ – 8.78% M12 Natural » ESG policy for Lending » Lent to sectors with positive E and S
Capital » Scaling the green portfolio outcomes – ₹48,412 crores
» Commitment to reducing emissions » IFC partnered to provide a $500 million
in operations loan for financing green projects
» ~₹22,160 crores Green lending
portfolio
htworG
ytilibatfiorP ytilibaniatsuS
» Credit
Our Mission
» Liquidity
DRIVEN BY
Our Mission is to be the » Market
preferred financial solutions » Information &
provider across the country, Cyber Security
delivering customer delight by: » Operational
Deposits » Climate » Providing innovative and
intuitive banking solutions
» A combination of
organisational agility,
digital capabilities and
» p A b p a a h d n r y o ti k s p i c i c ti n u a g n l l a g p r r e l r s y a a u c c a s ti h t ro a c i u e n n s a , d b l E e S G L e n di n g M a n a I g n e v m e s e tm e n t » » O Cl p im er a a t ti e onal
n » Cyber Security & climate change t
» Operational
k » Information &
S e rv C ic u e sto m e r U n d er M w a r n i ti a n g C g e o , m l R l e e is c n ti t o & ns Cyber Security
Operations » Operational
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Stakeholder Engagement | Material Issues | External Environment | Risk Management » Credit
Read more pg. 48 Read more pg. 58 Read more pg. 76 Read more pg. 186 » Information &
Cyber Security
» Climate
Performance Outlook
Read more pg. 88 Read more pgs. 26 and 84
Output (Services Offered by Business Segments)
Retail Banking Wholesale Banking Treasury
Loans, savings and retail term Loans, current and corporate term Foreign Exchange (Forex), » Climate deposits, credit, debit and forex deposits, payments, trade finance Derivatives, Debt Capital Markets
cards, bill payment services, products, letter of credit, bank (DCM), Loan Syndication, wealth management and guarantees, cash management Investment & Liquidity
third–party product distribution services and commercial cards Management, Asset Liability
Management (ALM)
Read more pg. 96 Read more pg. 104 Read more pg. 107
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
46 47
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Value creation by the bank
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Engaging with purpose
and addressing what
matters
At Axis Bank, meaningful
engagement with our
stakeholders is essential
to understand their
expectations.
We conduct a formal Stakeholder expectations and concerns are
This commitment to
Engagement and Materiality addressed promptly, reinforcing
purposeful engagement
Assessment (SEMA) exercise trust and accountability.
helps us gauge the internal periodically, engaging with both
In fiscal 2025, the Bank conducted
and external business our internal stakeholders, such
a fresh SEMA exercise, which
as employees, and external
environment and assess key included for the first time a
stakeholders, such as our
material issues and risks Double Materiality Assessment.
customers. Engaging with our
Based on our internal survey
based on their severity and stakeholders helps us maintain
and benchmarking exercise, the
likelihood of occurrence. a strong, organisation–wide
identified stakeholders were
grievance redressal framework,
It also shapes our business prioritised according to their
ensuring stakeholders,
purpose and guides our influence and impact.
strategy to create long–term
sustainable value.
Stakeholder Prioritisation Matrix
High
High Impact, High Impact,
Low Influence High Influence
(Value Chain Partners) (Investors, Customers,
Employees, Regulators
& Policymakers)
Low Impact, Low Impact,
Low Influence High Influence
(Industry & Peers) (Communities & NGOs,
Rating Agencies)
Influence High
tcapmI
D A
C B
Low
48
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder engagement
Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality in Fiscal 2025
1 2 3
Stakeholder Identification Categorisation and Prioritisation Identification of IROs
Key stakeholder groups were identified Stakeholders were prioritised and (Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities)
through a comprehensive internal categorised based on their relevance, 15 material IROs were identified through
assessment and industry benchmarking significance, and impact on the Bank’s in–depth research, peer benchmarking,
exercise. The process mapped how value creation process. They were internal deliberations, and alignment
stakeholders affect and are affected by systematically classified into internal, with the European Sustainability
the Bank’s operations. external, and affected stakeholder groups Reporting Standards (ESRS). These IROs
to support focused engagement. reflect actual or potential positive and
negative impacts, as well as associated
risks and opportunities, arising from
the Bank’s business model and value
creation activities.
4 5
Stakeholder Engagement and Double » Financial Materiality Impact Prioritisation and Materiality
Materiality Assessment (Outside–in Perspective) Matrix Development
Assessed the likelihood and
A customised survey framework was Material topics were prioritised by
potential magnitude of financial
designed in line with the Corporate integrating the outcomes of both impact
impacts of material issues on the
Sustainability Reporting Directive and financial materiality assessments.
Bank’s performance in the short,
(CSRD) to assess double materiality: The final Materiality Matrix was developed
medium, and long term.
by plotting the prioritised IROs to visually
» Impact Materiality
represent their significance across the
(Inside–out Perspective)
double materiality dimensions.
Evaluated the significance and
severity of impacts based on their
scale, scope, and irremediability
over short, medium, and long–term
timeframes for the identified IROs.
Stakeholder Engagement
To ensure our strategy aligns with our Policymakers, Communities & NGOs,
stakeholders’ priorities and creates Industry & Peers, Rating Agencies,
mutual value, we systematically map Value Chain Partners, and Employees.
and identify stakeholders based on To connect with these diverse groups,
their potential impact on our business, we undertook planned engagements
their influence (direct and indirect), through regular customer surveys,
and our impact on them. Following investor meetings, employee town
internal assessments and leadership halls, and other means, focusing on
discussions, we identified 8 key responsive, need–based dialogue.
stakeholder groups, encompassing
Investors, Customers, Regulators &
49
Value creation by the bank
Investors
Why They Matter
Investors play a pivotal role in the growth and sustainability of a bank. For a rapidly developing economy like India,
access to growth capital is essential, and investors are not only stakeholders but also the providers of capital–both
in the form of equity and debt instruments such as bonds. Their confidence and continued support are vital for
maintaining financial stability and fostering long–term value creation. A structured and proactive communication
with market participants, including investors, ensures transparency, builds trust, and facilitates a continuous
two–way dialogue that contributes to efficient price discovery.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» Post–quarterly earnings calls » Financial performance Our response to an evolving
» Conference presentations to » Compliance, governance, and environment is anchored in our
analysts and investors ethical business practices GPS strategy–which shapes
» Investor forums, industry » Business strategy & every decision we make.
conferences, and operational efficiency We are committed to:
broker–led events » Long–term value creation
» Focusing on sustainable growth
» Organised investor roadshows » ESG performance, risks,
and long–term value creation
(both domestic and international) and opportunities
» One–on–one and group meetings » Transparent lending & » Upholding transparent
» Analyst meets responsible banking practices governance, ethical conduct, and
» Non–deal roadshows » Technology & innovation robust disclosures
in business
» Promoting responsible banking
and driving inclusive impact
Frequency
» Staying agile by continuously
Continuous/Periodic/ tracking market trends and
Need–based refining strategies
» Strengthening risk management
frameworks to proactively
manage emerging risks
» Maintaining open and continuous
dialogue with stakeholders
Shared Value Creation
We continue to deliver value through strong financial performance, consistent EPS growth, and robust asset qualit y,
anchored in prudent risk management and regulatory compliance. Our healthy capital position and low NPAs refle ct
disciplined governance. ESG excellence is validated by top–tier ratings and global sustainability index inclusion. W e
uphold transparency and accountability through strong corporate governance. Impactful CSR initiatives in education ,
livelihoods, and financial inclusion reinforce our social commitment. A rising NPS highlights our customer–centr ic
approach, driven by digital innovation and trust. By integrating profitability, responsibility, and governance, we creat e
sustainable long–term value for all stakeholders.
50
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder engagement
Customers
Why They Matter
Our aim is to help our customers reach their financial goals by offering them a bouquet of products and services.
Our policies and practices directly impact their financial health, and their active engagement with the Bank is
key to our shared success and ability to create value.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» Communication at branches and » Quality products and services » ‘One Axis’ approach – offering all
with Relationship Managers » Innovative technology services under one roof
» Telephonic and online » Transparency and fair business » Customised and specialised
communication via » Maintaining customer data privacy products and services
website, emails, Mobile and security » Continuous focus on
Banking application, social » Effective and quick customer customer delight
media platforms grievance redressal mechanism » Ethical business practices
» Axis Virtual Centre » Focus on digitisation and customer
» Customer satisfaction survey data privacy
» Grievance mechanisms » Introduced Axis Pride, focusing
» Marketing campaigns on the quick resolution of
» Meetings with Retail and customer grievances
corporate customers » Sustainable Financing
» Regular interaction and
Satisfaction Surveys
Frequency
» Leadership in digital banking –
highest rated banking application
Continuous/Need–based
in the world offering over
200 services
Shared Value Creation
Strengthening of the Bank’s Social and Relationship Capital, as reflected in key customer–centric KPIs – Retail
Net Promoter Score (NPS) at 159 (on an indexed baseline of 100 since inception of baseline i.e. Q1FY23)
59 million customers as on March 31, 2025. The Bank has an extensive branch network, ATMs and CDMs.
To make its products and services accessible to all customers, including persons with disabilities (PWDs),
the Bank has enabled its ATMs with Braille keypads and talking functionality (voice guidance). In branches
that are not easily accessible, ramps have been constructed where feasible to facilitate access for PWDs.
The Bank has doorstep banking services for the ease of operations for senior citizens and PWDs.
51
Value creation by the bank
Regulators & Policymakers
Why They Matter
The Banking sector operates under the most stringent fiduciary and regulatory standards and evolving regulations
impact their operations. From regulations on capital requirements, lending practices and financial reporting
requirements to priority sector lending targets or new policies on cyber security, Banks’ business strategy as well
as profitability are directly impacted by changing regulations and policies.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» Mandatory filings with » Corporate governance » Transparent and fair disclosures
regulators; interaction » Adherence to all compliance norms » Robust compliance culture across
during inspections » Financial and non–financial the Bank
» One–on–one meetings, performance of the organisation » Responsible lending &
group meetings and » Financial inclusion initiatives NPA management
email correspondence » Digitisation and reaching
» Periodical submissions underserved populations
of business and » Publishing third–party assured
operational performance ESG disclosures
» Engagement at banking and
industry platforms, conferences,
and regulatory reviews
» Corporate announcements
Frequency
Continuous/Need–based
Shared Value Creation
At Axis Bank, we prioritise a culture of compliance and ethical business conduct, transparent corporate
governance, and upholding robust policy frameworks and complying with all regulations. The Bank’s Board
committees maintain independence for impartial decision–making and effective governance.
52
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder engagement
Employees
Why They Matter
Our employees drive organisational success through their expertise, productivity, and commitment–directly
influencing our ability to achieve strategic goals and deliver exceptional customer experiences. In return, the
Bank fosters a culture rooted in strong values, inclusive policies, and supportive practices that shape employee
engagement, performance, and overall wellbeing.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» Internal communications » Career development and » Industry first mobility program
– webcasts, newsletters, growth opportunities – thrive with opportunities for
surveys, emails » Learning & skill cross–functional movements and
» Management visits to branches building opportunities fast track promotions
» Employee engagement surveys » Health & wellbeing » Best–in–class learning resources
» Amber AI chatbot for » Inclusion at workplace and leveraging technology
real–time listening » Hybrid & flexible working for enabling anytime,
» Town–hall meetings with MD » Exposure & interaction anywhere learning
» Training and with leadership » Wellbeing ecosystem, including
development program » Recognition of contributions and mental health support, financial
» Mid–year and annual service milestones literacy, ergonomic workspaces
performance appraisals » Compensation & Benefits and wellness sherpas
» Intranet portal–My Connect » Effective employee feedback and
» Wellness program grievance mechanism
» Employee–led communities and » Promoting Diversity, Equity,
groups like Pride365 and Inclusion
» Deploying AI–driven tools
across recruitment, learning and
Frequency
employee services
» Structured rewards and
Continuous/Periodic
recognition program
» Multi–tiered leadership
development programs to build
capabilities across levels
Shared Value Creation
Axis Bank remains committed to nurturing its human capital of over 1.04 lakh employees through continuou s
learning, inclusivity, and employee wellbeing. Key KPIs such as 58.6 average L&D hours per employee, workforce
diversity of 27.7%, employee engagement scores and initiatives like the GIGA program, reflect this focus. We hav e
also had 5,700+ employees benefit from our internal mobility program.
53
Value creation by the bank
Industry & Peers
Why They Matter
The Bank operates within a dynamic and competitive ecosystem, constantly impacted by its industry peers and
associations. Industry associations play a crucial role in advocating for the interests of the banking sector, shaping
industry best practices, and facilitating knowledge–sharing.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» Communication with industry » Policy advocacy Formally represented on industry
and trade associations » Knowledge sharing platforms – World Economic
» Engagement under the Indian » Collaboration opportunities Forum, IBA, CII, BCCI, FICCI,
Banks’ Association (IBA) and and NASSCOM, among others
multilateral platforms participation in thought leadership
» Corporate seminars and advocacy Including ESG, CSR,
DE&I and climate action
Frequency
Continuous/Need–based
For more details, please
refer to pg. 196 on
Thought Leadership and
Policy Advocacy
Shared Value Creation
In fiscal 2025, the Bank’s leadership played an active role in shaping ESG and climate action agendas by
serving on key national committees of reputed industry bodies such as FICCI, CII, the Bombay Chamber
of Commerce & Industry (BCCI), and IBA. These positions underscore our commitment to meaningful
engagement, policy advocacy, and thought leadership at both national and international levels.
54
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder engagement
Communities & NGOs
Why They Matter
Banks directly and indirectly impact communities near their operational areas. Beyond financial services,
the Bank actively contributes to societal wellbeing through impactful CSR initiatives, partnerships with
NGOs, and collaborations with academia.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» CSR programs implemented by » Financial inclusion Continued efforts in aligning our
Axis Bank » Inclusive growth CSR goals across the thematic areas
» Feedback through » Quality of education including access to banking in rural
structured questionnaires » Environmental sustainability and remote areas:
» Conferences and roundtables » Access to healthcare » Sustainable livelihoods
» NGO/CSO capacity building » Education
workshops » Financial literacy and inclusion
» Environmental sustainability
» Sports
Frequency
» Health and nutrition
» Humanitarian and relief
Continuous/Need–based
Shared Value Creation
The Bank continues to create long–term social value through targeted interventions. Key performance
indicators such as CSR participants of ~10 lakhs and having active CSR interventions in 32 States and Union
Territories of India reflect our commitment to inclusive growth. These initiatives have structured monitoring
mechanisms to ensure effectiveness, transparency, and impact.
55
Value creation by the bank
Rating Agencies
Why They Matter
Rating agencies (both credit and ESG) significantly influence the Bank’s financial health and public perception.
Their assessments directly impact the Bank’s access to capital, influencing the interest rates on instruments issued
by the Bank, ultimately affecting the cost of capital.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» One–on–one meetings and » Financial parameters » Transparent financial and
group meetings and profitability non–financial reporting
» Email correspondence » ESG performance & reporting » Improved profitability and
» Submissions of financial & operational performance
non–financial performance for » Improved ESG disclosures
issuance & review of ratings and scores
Frequency
Periodic/Need–based
Shared Value Creation
Axis Bank’s strong credit Ratings and ESG ratings/scores are a direct result of its disciplined financial managemen t,
sound governance, and sustainability integration. In fiscal 2025, this enabled a reduction in cost of capita l,
better pricing on debt instruments, and increased access to green and sustainable finance. During the year, th e
International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, partnered with Axis Bank to provide a
$500 million loan to help develop a blue finance market and scale up financing of green projects in India. Improve d
CAR by 44 bps and GNPA by 15 bps in fiscal 2025 on a y–o–y basis, reflecting a resilient risk profile and sustaine d
business growth. The Bank’s governance and ESG disclosures’ alignment with the <IR> framework/BRSR standards
highlights our commitment to responsible business practices and long–term value creation.
56
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder engagement
Value Chain Partners
Why They Matter
A bank’s relationship with its value chain partners (service providers, material suppliers, business
associates, distributors, and other upstream partners) is crucial for its smooth and efficient operation and
cost effectiveness.
How We Connect What Matters Most to Them How We Respond
» Vendor meetings » Timely payouts » Ensuring timely payouts
» Structured surveys » Fair contractual terms and for services
» Techno–commercial adherence to these terms » Commitment to equitable
discussions and service » Organisational ESG consciousness agreements and their
engagements » Transparent, ethical, and long–term faithful implementation
» Audit, governance, and business relations » Having a Vendor Code of
compliance meetings » Regular exchange of technical Conduct in place
» Contracts, emails, and calls know–how » Building trustworthy, moral, and
enduring partnerships
» Operating with a strong focus on
Frequency
ESG–aligned responsibilities
Periodic/Need–based
Shared Value Creation
The Bank promotes a responsible and inclusive value chain by engaging a wide network of business associates and
MSME vendors, with a strong focus on local sourcing (97%). Guided by a comprehensive Vendor Code of Conduct,
we encourage ethical and sustainable practices across our supplier base. Regular awareness programs and period ic
assessments help ensure compliance and continuous improvement among value chain partners.
57
Value creation by the bank
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Identifying and
prioritising key issues
To ensure long–term
sustainability and value
creation, Axis Bank
proactively identifies
and manages relevant
Impacts, Risks, and
Opportunities (IROs) in the
rapidly evolving financial
sector. We recognise the
importance of thoroughly
assessing these factors
to strategically mitigate
Following the Stakeholder and potential, positive and negative,
potential downsides while Engagement and Materiality societal and environmental footprint
unlocking new avenues Assessment undertaken by the across short term, medium term and
Bank in fiscal 2022 and the long term.
for growth, contributing
subsequent stakeholder feedback,
meaningfully to the The Bank aligned its methodology
we adopted a ‘Double Materiality’
with leading global benchmarks,
nation’s progress. approach in fiscal 2025 to assess
including the Corporate Sustainability
the material issues relevant to
Reporting Directive (CSRD) and
the Bank. A total of 15 IROs were
European Sustainability Reporting
identified based on our internal
Standards (ESRS) on double
assessment, sector research, peer
materiality. Our comprehensive
review and benchmarking, and
assessment also resonates with the
secondary sources.
guiding principles of the BRSR and
During the ‘Double Materiality <IR> frameworks.
Assessment’ for the fiscal 2025,
We strongly believe that continuous
we considered how the Bank’s
engagement with our stakeholders
operations affect the environment
is essential to truly understand
and people while also assessing
the issues that are of the greatest
how the IROs affect the Bank’s
importance to the Bank’s operations.
long–term value, financial
We recognise that stakeholders often
performance, and resilience.
have diverse and, at times, opposing
We considered both the actual
perspectives on these critical matters.
58
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Approach to Double Materiality
Materiality Matrix
ytilairetaM
laicnaniF
Materiality assessment
Identifying IROs Impact Financial Prioritisation of Materiality
(Impact, Risk & Materiality Materiality Material matters Matrix
Opportunities)
Regulatory Compliance
Risk Management
Fraud and Money Laundering: – Prevention, Detection & Mitigation
Privacy and Data Security Corporate
Governance &
Return on Equity and Return to Shareholders Ethical Business
Customer Experience & Satisfaction Conduct
Innovation & Digitalisation
Sustainable Finance & Responsible Banking
Employee Engagement, Development & Wellbeing
Impact of Climate Change
Financial Inclusion, Literacy and Access
Community Engagement & Development
Policy Advocacy & Thought leadership
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Impact Materiality
59
Value creation by the bank
Risk Management
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Robust risk management Our risk management framework
enhances the Bank’s resilience empowers us to identify and » In–house ESG Rating model
and drives sustainable growth. address changing risks proactively. to augment borrower-level
In today’s dynamic financial Supported by an independent Risk credit appraisal developed
landscape, proactively managing function, the Board maintains keen
both traditional financial and oversight on every aspect of risk » Built stress testing and
emerging ESG–related risks is key management, ensuring transparency, scenario analysis capabilities
to navigating complexities and accountability, and resilience. in line with regulatory
seizing opportunities. guidance and expectations
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDG Impacted
Corporate Governance & Ethical Business Conduct
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Strong governance and ethical We uphold the highest standards
conduct are fundamental to of governance while maintaining » Zero incidents of conflict
the Bank’s long–term success rigorous transparency in risk
of interest
and trust–building. We uphold management and internal controls.
high governance standards, Our robust Governance Framework » 15% representation of
ensure accountable leadership, ensures full regulatory compliance women in the Board of
and embed ethics across our and supports value creation for Directors
operations and financing. all stakeholders. » 61.54% Independent
A comprehensive ESG strategy
Directors on the Board
further helps align with
stakeholder priorities, address » First Indian Bank to constitute
climate challenges, and ensure an ESG Committee of
effective board oversight, driving the Board
transparency, fairness, and shared » Retained top–tier ‘Leadership’
sustainable value creation.
rating in the Indian Corporate
Governance Scorecard by IiAS
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
60
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Materiality assessment
Regulatory Compliance
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Adherence to the regulatory Our culture of compliance helps us
framework is not just a legal mitigate risks better and bolsters » 98.5% of eligible employees
obligation but essential to long– business resilience and stakeholder completed annual mandatory
term value creation. As a leading confidence. Our stakeholders, compliance training
financial institution in India, we including customers, investors,
navigate a complex and evolving regulators, and the community, rely » 4 instances of fines/penalties
regulatory environment, where on our commitment to regulatory
any non–compliance can lead compliance and ethical conduct to
to financial penalties, mitigate potential risks.
legal repercussions, and
reputational damage.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDG Impacted
Fraud & Money Laundering–Prevention,
Detection & Mitigation
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Safeguarding against fraud and We have strong policy and process
money laundering is crucial mechanisms across all areas of
» 98.9% of eligible employees
for the Bank and the financial our banking operations to prevent
trained in AML &
system’s integrity. As these risks fraud and money laundering in
related laws
evolve, especially with the growth the digital and physical realms. By
of digital banking, it is essential investing in advanced technologies » 343 Vigilance cases
to implement comprehensive and enhancing our capabilities, we processed and 427 Officials
measures to prevent, detect, strengthen our ability to detect and were subjected to
and respond to them across prevent such risks, particularly in disciplinary action during
all operations. digital banking. the year
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDG Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
61
Value creation by the bank
Privacy and Data Security
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Data privacy and security are The Bank prioritises data security,
fundamental to maintaining customer investing in robust capabilities and » Best–in Class Cyber Security
trust in today’s digital world. As a adhering to stringent cyber security Score amongst peers from
customer–centric organisation, we policies aligned with industry Pioneer cyber security
recognise that safeguarding personal best practices and regulations. rating agency
data is critical to our reputation and Our Information System Security
business continuity. Data breaches Committee ensures regular » Zero instances involving loss/
can have severe consequences, assessment and validation of controls breach of customer data
making it essential to constantly against cyber threats, aligning with
strengthen our IT security measures ISO 27001 and PCI DSS standards.
to mitigate cyber threats and protect
customer information.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDG Impacted
Return on Equity and Return to Shareholders
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Return on Equity (RoE) and Return to We continuously engage with
Shareholders are material indicators shareholders and investors, sharing » Consolidated RoE – 16.89%
of our financial performance and key updates on our operations
reflect the broader impact of our and performance during investor » Consolidated RoA – 1.77%
sustainability priorities. RoE drives and analyst meetings, calls, » 0.33% Net NPA
investor confidence and informs and quarterly and annual result
capital allocation, directly influencing announcements. RoE reflects » D42,105 crores Operating Profit
shareholder value. Our financial our profitability, financial health,
strength underpins our ability to and business resilience, helping
contribute to the economy and meet us attract investors, gain greater
stakeholder expectations. As climate access to capital, and create value
change impacts financial outcomes, for stakeholders.
integrating ESG considerations
becomes essential for effective
risk mitigation and long–term
value creation.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDG Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
62
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Materiality assessment
Customer Experience & Satisfaction
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
An exceptional customer experience Leveraging our digital outreach, we
and satisfaction are fundamental seek customer feedback through » 59 million customers
to our success. With millions regular satisfaction surveys, which
of customers relying on us, we allows us to gather valuable inputs » 159 Retail Net Promoter
are committed to safeguarding that guide us in continuously Score on indexed baseline
their interests, ensuring fairness, improving our products and of 100, since inception of
transparency, and the protection services. We also adhere to the baseline (Q1FY23)
of their savings and investments. RBI’s Customer Rights, Grievances
Customer feedback and effective Redressal, and Compensation
grievance redressal are vital to Policy, ensuring fair treatment for
improve our offerings and service our customers.
delivery continuously.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Sustainable Finance & Responsible Banking
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Sustainable financing strengthens Aligned with the UN SDGs, the
our business while contributing to a Bank’s Sustainable Financing » Towards our 2030 goal of
sustainable future for all. Framework is a blueprint for future D60,000 crores of incremental
By integrating ESG factors into ESG issuances. It is the first such lending to E&S-aligned sectors
lending and investment, we direct framework by an Indian Bank to (2021 onwards), reached INR
capital toward high–impact projects, receive a Second Party Opinion. 48,412 crores. as of March
reduce risks by limiting our exposure The ESG Working Group actively 31, 2025
to sensitive assets, and meet the oversees its implementation,
growing demand for responsible supported by a dedicated ESG » D22,160 crores Green
banking and financing practices. Policy for Lending. Together, these lending portfolio
This approach aligns with our initiatives strengthen the Bank’s » 447 proposals assessed under
mission, supports broader societal overall sustainable financing the ESG Policy for Lending
goals, sustainable development capabilities. Notably, climate risk has
goals and the transition to a now been integrated into the Bank’s » Raised $500 million Green
low–carbon economy. overall risk management framework, Loan from IFC with first ever
with oversight at the Board level. blue component
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
63
Value creation by the bank
Employee Engagement, Development & Wellbeing
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Attracting, developing, and retaining Supported by a comprehensive
talent is key to our success. HR policy emphasising meaningful » 6 million+ learning hours
We invest in learning, engagement, career experiences, flexible work of employees
and wellbeing to build a motivated , arrangements, and
high–performing, and resilient outcome–driven performance » Profit per employee stands
workforce. By supporting mental metrics, we are well–positioned at D0.25 crores
health, work–life balance, and safety, to drive innovation and growth » 27.7% workforce diversity
we foster an inclusive culture that in the banking sector. Through
draws and nurtures top talent. progressive HR programs and » 5,700+ internal
policies, we have built an enabling mobility movements
and inclusive work environment that » D280 crores+ amount spent
supports continuous learning and
on employee wellbeing
career development.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Innovation and Digitalisation
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Digitalisation and innovation are The Bank differentiates itself
transforming banking, unlocking through best–in–class banking
» 30 million Registered Mobile
significant opportunities to technology, digital innovation,
Banking Users
optimise operations, enhance and beyond–banking solutions to
customer experience, and stay foster business expansion. We have » ~15 million+ Registered &
competitive. By strategically enhanced our digital capabilities, Active Mobile Banking Users
adopting emerging technologies, bolstered our technological
» Axis Mobile application is
financial institutions can streamline framework, and leveraged
among the top rated mobile
processes, develop advanced advanced analytics to enrich the
banking app on Google
digital products and services, and customer experience.
Play store and Apple store
deliver more personalised, secure
with rating of 4.7 and
digital interactions, enhancing user
4.8 respectively
experience and building trust.
» First Indian Bank to be ISO
certified for its AWS and Azure
Cloud security
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDG Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
64
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Materiality assessment
Financial Inclusion, Literacy & Access
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Financial inclusion offers a vita l The Bank’s efforts to promote
opportunity to expand our reach and financial inclusion have empowered » 2.8 million women participants in
empower communities, reflecting millions of individuals, especially microfinance rural lending
our purpose of ‘Banking that leads women, bringing them into the formal
» 13.79 lakh customers in PM Jan
to a more inclusive and equitable financial system. The efforts have
Dhan Yojna
economy’. By broadening access also expanded their access to key
to financial services, we aim to social security schemes. By promoting » 4.13 lakh customers under Pradhan
serve underserved populations and financial access and protection, the Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana
encourage greater participation in the Bank is strengthening its reach in » 1.31 lakh customers under
formal economy. Financial literacy is a rural markets, which is contributing Pradhan Mantri Jeevan
key enabler, equipping individuals with to sustainable business growth and Jyoti Yojana
the knowledge to use financial services improved customer trust. » 10.05 lakh customers under Atal
effectively, thus promoting their
Pension Yojana
wellbeing and economic resilience.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Impact of Climate Change
What it Means of financed emissions from our
investments and counterparties and FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Climate change poses a significant ,
their role in our climate strategy.
multifaceted risk to the Bank, impacting
» 7.90 GJ/FTE energy intensity
both its operations and the broader
per employee
economy. We recognise the financia l Interlinkage with Value Creation
risks arising from climate change and The Bank is committed to » 140,345 tCO e Scope 1 &
2
the need for their effective mitigation . developing a proactive mitigation 2 emissions
Emissions from our operations, and adaptation plan, including
» ~72,474 GJ Total
especially digital infrastructure conducting comprehensive climate
renewable energy consumed
and energy use, must be managed risk assessments to identify and
efficiently to limit costs and avoid manage potential physical and » ~3.27 million trees planted
scrutiny and environmental harm. We transition risks that may impact (including target of 2 million
also acknowledge the broader financia l the business. By integrating tree plantations, Miyawaki
risks, including physical and transition sustainability criteria into our plantations and other tree
risks, and the need to adapt to operations and credit appraisal, plantation programs)
climate–related changes to build we contribute to the transition to
strategic and operational resilience. a low–carbon economy and ensure
Finally, we recognise the importance long–term financial stability.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
65
Value creation by the bank
Policy Advocacy and Thought Leadership
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
The Bank actively shapes the The Bank actively engages in
financial ecosystem through thought leadership, policy advocacy, » The Bank is an active member
strategic policy advocacy and and sustainable development, of several prominent industry
industry thought leadership. showcasing its dedication to associations, including the
It contributes to developing robust fostering positive change in Associated Chambers of
and sustainable regulations by the financial sector. Through Commerce and Industry of
providing its expert insights at partnerships with key bodies and India (ASSOCHAM), FICCI,
key forums such as the World participation in influential summits, CII, the Bengal Chamber
Economic Forum, Securities the Bank shapes industry practices. of Commerce and Industry
and Exchange Board of India It promotes resilience in the financial (BCCI), and the Indian Banks’
(SEBI), Confederation of Indian ecosystem by leading the sector’s Association (IBA)
Industry (CII), and Federation of sustainable transformation.
Indian Chambers of Commerce &
» To the best of its knowledge,
either directly or indirectly,
Industry (FICCI). By advocating for
the Bank has not made any
policies that promote innovation,
monetary contribution/
inclusivity, and resilience, we
undertaken any spending
demonstrate our commitment
towards any political
to responsible governance and
campaign or political
sustainable growth.
organisation in fiscal 2025
For more details, please
refer to pg. 196 on
Thought Leadership and
Policy Advocacy
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDG Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
66
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Materiality assessment
Community Engagement & Development
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Engaging with communities in the A strong institutional framework
vicinity of our operations allows governs the Bank’s CSR programs, » 387,467 no. of households
us to understand their needs and which are overseen by the CSR positively impacted through
challenges. This enables us to Committee of the Board and aligned the Sustainable Livelihoods
develop targeted initiatives that to Section 135 of the Companies Program in fiscal 2025
drive positive social impact in Act, 2013. We also draw inspiration
reflection of our purpose of ‘Banking from the UN SDGs, ensuring our » 7.7 lakh+ students positively
that leads to a thriving community work contributes to broader global impacted under bank’s
and a healthier planet’. development objectives. In fiscal CSR education program in
2025, our initiatives spanned fiscal 2025
geographies and themes from border » 1.25 lakhs of women
villages to urban slums, natural
empowered through financial
resource management to cancer
literacy sessions in fiscal 2025
care, and grassroots sports
to academic research. » 381 athletes supported
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
What it Means Interlinkage with Value Creation
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
Our commitment to Diversity, The Bank’s DE&I approach is rooted
Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) offers in empathy, purposeful action, » 27.7% women representation
us a key opportunity, aligned to and the conviction that individuals
in the Bank’s workforce
our core philosophy and values, of thrive when they experience a
creating a workplace where diverse true sense of belonging. Beyond » 34% hiring diversity rate
backgrounds are represented, all internal programs, the Bank is » ~33,000 women impacted
employees feel valued, and equitable furthering its external impact on
in rural India through Axis
opportunities are available to all . DE&I by engaging with communities
Women in Motion programs
Prioritising DE&I strengthens the and the corporate ecosystem to
Bank, drives innovation, and fuels promote best practices in diversity
long–term value creation. and inclusion, thus driving positive
change across society.
Capital Linkage Stakeholders Impacted SDGs Impacted
Positive, Actual Negative, Potential
67
Business
performance
review
68
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Axis Bank delivered a strong performance in fiscal 2025,
marked by healthy growth across core operating metrics,
disciplined cost management, and continued improvements
in asset quality. The Bank’s balanced growth strategy,
underpinned by a resilient franchise and prudent risk
practices, helped it navigate market dynamics effectively.
A sharp focus on customer–centricity, digital innovation,
and operating efficiency contributed to steady gains in
profitability and stakeholder value.
69
Business Performance Review
MD & CEO’S STATEMENT
Building a customer obsessed,
resilient institution
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Dear Shareholders,
Fiscal 2025 was a pivotal year that Our unwavering focus on high RAROC Management and Payments, where
showcased our ability to adapt, lead, businesses continues to be a key our customer–first approach and
and innovate in an ever–evolving growth engine, propelling us forward product innovation continue to set us
financial landscape—one that tested with strong momentum across Small apart. Our flagship digital platforms,
our resilience, sharpened our strategic Business Banking, SME, and Mid– ‘open’ and ‘neo’, have maintained their
focus, and reaffirmed our commitment Corporate segments. This year, we strong positions across Retail and
to building a future–ready, customer– achieved a record 500 new branches— Wholesale Banking, respectively,
centric institution. Since the inception an expansion that not only deepens reinforcing our role as a frontrunner in
of our GPS strategy in 2019, we have our presence but also strengthens digital transformation.
been on a mission to reimagine Axis our ability to serve customers across
Our commitment to customer
Bank as a stronger, more agile, and India more meaningfully. Our deposit
satisfaction remains steadfast, as
more inclusive financial institution. franchise has improved in both quality
evidenced by our #2 Net Promoter
Through disciplined execution and and cost parameters, and on the growth
Score (NPS) ranking among large peer
focused investments in people, front we are focused on building a
banks, as independently benchmarked
processes, technology, and high–impact sustainable franchise through multiple
by Kantar. This recognition is a
initiatives, the Bank has evolved into a initiatives taken by the Bank.
reflection of the trust and loyalty
stronger and more resilient organisation
We have sustained our position we have earned through consistently
towards its journey to become an
among the top players in high– improving service excellence.
“all–weather institution”.
impact businesses such as Wealth
70
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MD & CEO’s statement
We delivered a consolidated Return on
Assets of 1.77% and Return on Equity
of 16.89% for fiscal 2025, outcomes
driven by disciplined execution as Our customer–first mindset is driving deeper
operating leverage aided healthy core
engagement and premiumisation across the
operating profit performance. Our
board. From curated offerings to award–winning
core operating profit grew 13% y–o–y,
supported by a best–in–class fee–to– wealth platforms, we are creating differentiated
average–assets ratio, healthy NIMs of experiences that resonate with every segment we
3.98%, and a prudent 6% growth in
serve. This has not only helped in exceeding our GPS
operating expenses for fiscal 2025.
commitments but also in unlocking new levers of
Our liquidity position remains strong,
with an average LCR of 119% for competitive advantage.
quarter ended March 31, 2025.
We remain deeply committed to
profitable and sustainable growth,
with calibrated risk management across Despite a challenging liquidity optimisation initiatives will persist.
portfolios, as we stay focussed on environment, we have demonstrated Operating expenses for fiscal 2025
three core areas of execution of our controlled increase in cost of funds grew just 6% y–o–y, a sharp moderation
GPS strategy: over the last eight quarters, with only 7 from 30% in fiscal 2024. Remarkably,
bps increase in the last four quarters, a despite opening a record 500 new
» Becoming a resilient, testament to our disciplined approach branches, staff costs rose by 12%, with
all–weather Franchise and robust acquisition engine. a net addition of just 121 employees—
» Creating multiplicative forces to Our expansion strategy, product driven by digitisation and productivity
build competitive advantage innovation, and momentum in salary gains in certain areas.
credits are beginning to show early
» Building for the future
signs of traction on the deposit base. Deepening customer engagement with
with a relentless focus on
premiumisation gaining ground
driving distinctiveness
Balancing Growth Ambition with Cost Our salaried customer franchise
Prudence continues to deepen, with 18% y–o–y
Becoming a resilient,
In a deposit–constrained environment growth in salary uploads and a 38%
all–weather Franchise
which lasted mostly through fiscal y–o–y surge in premium acquisitions in
Our journey to becoming a truly 2025, we prioritised businesses with the NTB Salary segment by March 31,
resilient, all–weather franchise has high RAROC opportunities. Our 2025. This reflects the success of our
been powered by consistent execution, Small Business Banking, SME, and targeted engagement strategies and
and strategic investments in talent, Mid–Corporate portfolios grew 14% product personalisation.
technology, and scalable initiatives. y–o–y, now accounting for ~23% of
The premiumisation of our franchise is
We’ve not only exceeded our GPS the total loan book, up ~740 bps over
progressing well. Burgundy AUMs grew
commitments but also unlocked new the past four years, a clear indicator
10% y–o–y, and our Burgundy Private
levers of competitive advantage. of our strategic shift towards more
segment was recognised as India’s Best
profitable growth.
We delivered market–leading growth for Next Gen at the Euromoney Global
across our identified focus segments, Our cost performance was driven Private Banking Awards 2025.
while maintaining tight control over by three key factors: conscious
We also launched differentiated
costs. Our deposit franchise continues belt tightening, the phasing out of
offerings like the ‘ARISE’ savings account
to strengthen in both quality and integration-related expenses, and a
for women and the Doctors Banking
granularity, reflected in a 340 bps contribution from volume. While the
Program, reinforcing our commitment
improvement in outflow ratio over the volume-related benefits may diminish
to delivering curated experiences for
past three years, now similar to larger as we get the right set of liabilities, the
every customer segment.
private peer banks. focus on belt tightening and ongoing
71
Business performance review
Driving Scale and Sophistication in In the retail unsecured segment, Strengthening the Core:
Wholesale Banking including microfinance, we are Technology, Security, and Scale
witnessing a normalisation cycle driven
On the Wholesale Banking front, our We continued to invest in building a
by increased credit appetite and over–
industry–leading neo platforms and future–ready technology architecture
leverage in certain cohorts. We have
bespoke solutions in payments and and enhancing capabilities across
proactively responded with tighter
cash management continue to drive cyber security, fraud control, risk, and
portfolio monitoring, early warning
higher transaction flows and stronger collections. These investments are
triggers, and recalibrated underwriting
current account balances. We further enabling us to replace fragmented
policies to ensure delinquencies
solidified our position with ~23% legacy systems with scalable, integrated
remain within acceptable thresholds.
market share in IMPS, ~30% in NEFT platforms that support innovation and
These timely interventions reflect
for March 2025, 7% in GST Payments business growth.
our commitment to maintaining asset
and 11% in foreign LC for fiscal 2025.
quality while supporting responsible Our digital platforms are a testament to
In the Merchant Acquiring Business, we
credit growth. this transformation. neo for Corporates
retained our stature as a top–tier player
and Integrated Treasury Management
with a 20% terminal market share for Our provisioning and recognition
are now live, offering seamless digital
March 2025. standards remain among the most
experiences to large enterprises. neo for
conservative in the industry. In Q4
Business, our MSME–focused platform,
Fortifying Our Foundation: fiscal 2025, we further tightened our
now serves 1.8 lakh customers, while
A Stronger Balance Sheet and classification and upgrade criteria for
neo for Corporates has been extended
Capital Position select loan categories. There is no
to over 2 lakh clients.
economic loss due to this conservative
Our balance sheet continues to be
stance, but this may marginally impact We also launched the UPI–ATM, an
a pillar of strength, underpinned by
credit costs and recoveries in fiscal Android–based cash recycler that
robust capital adequacy and best
2026 over fiscal 2025. It reinforces our enables cardless cash withdrawals
in class asset quality metrics. We
long–term focus on transparency and and deposits via UPI—an industry–
maintained a PCR of 75%, further
balance sheet resilience. first innovation. In partnership with
complemented by non–NPA provisions
NPCI’s Bharat BillPay Limited (NBBL),
of ₹11,957 crores, resulting in a Our CET–1 ratio, including profits,
we introduced Bharat Connect for
standard asset coverage ratio of 1.15% stands at 14.67%, up 93 basis points
Business, a comprehensive solution
as on March 31, 2025. y–o–y, even after accounting for the
for managing working capital and
proposed dividend of ₹1 per share–
Our net NPA stands at just 0.33%, streamlining receivables and payables.
driven largely by strong internal
the lowest among large peer banks,
accruals. This capital strength gives us Our Financial Crime Intelligence
an outcome of our prudent and
the confidence and flexibility to invest division now integrates advanced
conservative provisioning practices.
in future growth while staying well analytics, digital monitoring, and fraud
above regulatory thresholds. control, significantly enhancing our
security posture in an increasingly
digital world.
We continue to garner several
key external recognitions for the
capabilities and initiatives we have
We are laying the foundation for a future–ready
undertaken successfully in the last
bank–one that is secure, scalable, and built to innovate.
few years as the Bank was featured
Our investments in integrated platforms and digital on TIME’s World Best Companies
infrastructure are enabling us to serve customers with 2024, ranking highest among Indian
financial peers. We received multiple
greater speed, intelligence, and personalisation.
accolades at the ICC Emerging Asia
Banking Awards for profitability, risk
management, asset quality, and ESG
72
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MD & CEO’s statement
practices. The Axis Bank Foundation
won gold at FICCI’s Sustainable
Agriculture Summit 2024, and we were
named Best Indian Bank at the FT Bank At Axis Bank, we believe true competitive advantage
of the Year 2024 Awards–a reflection
is not just built through scale, but through synergy.
of our winning mindset culture
By integrating capabilities across businesses,
percolating across the Bank.
platforms, and partnerships into ‘One Axis’, we are
Creating multiplicative forces to creating powerful multiplicative forces that position
build competitive advantage
us well to support India’s financial progress.
At Axis Bank, we believe that true
competitive advantage is built not just
through scale, but through synergy. Our
ability to integrate capabilities across India’s first–ever blue loan, to scale AUM by 22%, with a 14.51% ROE and
businesses, platforms, and partnerships up green and sustainable financing a capital adequacy ratio of 20.9%. Axis
has created powerful multiplicative towards water and wastewater AMC posted a 21% y–o–y PAT growth
forces that position us to lead India’s management, reduction of marine to ₹501 crores, while Axis Securities
evolving financial landscape over the plastic pollution, restoration of marine delivered 39% PAT growth to ₹419
next decade. ecosystems, sustainable shipping, crores. Axis Capital maintained its
eco-friendly tourism, and offshore leadership in equity capital markets,
Our ‘One Axis’ strategy is a prime
renewable energy. This landmark and Invoicemart has now facilitated
example of this. The seamless
partnership underscores our leadership over ₹1.8 lakh crores in MSME invoice
integration of the erstwhile Citi
in responsible banking. financing since inception.
consumer business was completed in
July 2024, well ahead of the schedule, We are also deepening our support Max Life Insurance has been
thus showcasing our execution strength for India’s entrepreneurial ecosystem. rebranded as Axis Max Life Insurance
and digital readiness. Former Citibank Our collaboration with a fintech after receiving the corporate and
customers have now fully transitioned company is helping empower SMEs regulatory approval. We believe that
to Axis platforms, including the ‘open’ with digital tools and financial solutions. the integration of two trusted names,
by Axis mobile app and internet Meanwhile, Axis Bank has emerged as Max Life and Axis in the financial
banking. Not only was the migration the leading UPI Payer PSP Bank in India, services sector, will empower Axis Max
smooth, but digital engagement for Citi commanding a ~33% market share Life to achieve its long–term growth
customers has also surged—monthly by both value and volume for March aspirations through strategic expansion
active users and transaction volumes 2025. This leadership is powered by our beyond metros and tier 1 cities. Being
have exceeded pre–integration partnerships with 15 third–party app India’s fourth–largest life insurer,
levels, reflecting the strength of our providers and a robust UPI presence Axis Max Life Insurance continues
digital ecosystem. across Axis Mobile, BHIM Axis Pay, to be among the fastest–growing in
and Freecharge. the sector.
Together with our partners, we’re not
Together, these efforts reflect the
just building products—we’re building The strength of ‘One Axis’ lies in the
power of ‘One Axis’ as we continue
ecosystems that shape the future of seamless collaboration between the
to enhance our ability to create
banking. Bank and its subsidiaries—each adding
exponential value by connecting the
depth, agility, and innovation to our
Our commitment to inclusive dots across our ecosystem: customers,
collective journey.
innovation is equally strong. platforms, partners, and subsidiaries.
Recently, we launched an industry–first Our subsidiaries continue to be the
UPI solution tailored for senior citizens, strong engines of value creation.
addressing a critical gap in digital In fiscal 2025, our domestic subsidiaries
accessibility. We also partnered with delivered a net profit of ₹1,768 crores,
the International Finance Corporation growing 11% y–o–y, with a 46% return
(IFC) to secure a $500 million loan, on investment. Axis Finance grew its
73
Business performance review
Building for the future with
a relentless focus on driving
distinctiveness
Our journey to becoming a future–
We are building for the future with a relentless
ready institution is guided by a
focus on what sets us apart. With Digital Banking,
sharp focus on what sets us apart–
Digital banking, Bharat Banking, and Bharat Banking, and Customer Obsession as
Customer Obsession. These pillars our core pillars, we’re creating a franchise that’s
are not just strategic priorities; they
distinctive by design and built to lead.
are the foundation of our long–
term distinctiveness.
From GenAI to One View: Redefining
automation, and analytics to semi–urban (RuSu) markets. We
Digital Banking at Scale
enhance customer engagement and expanded our distribution network
Our flagship app, Axis Mobile, workforce productivity. to 2,736 RuSu branches, supported
continues to be among the top–rated by a 28,000+ strong CSC Village
Our employee platform ‘Siddhi’ serves
mobile banking apps with a rating of Level Entrepreneur network. In fiscal
as a unified interface for over 90,000
4.7 on Google Play and 4.8 on the 2025 alone, we added over 250 new
employees and partners, offering
App Store, now handling over 64% of branches in these markets.
real–time insights and personalised
branch service requests through 250+
recommendations. Built on a modern
DIY features. With 15 million monthly
Sparsh 2.0: Redefining Customer
tech stack and integrated with 35+
active users and another 15 million
Experience
systems, ‘Siddhi’ delivers advanced
non–Axis users across Axis Mobile
analytics and nudges that have led to Sparsh 2.0 is redefining customer
and Axis Pay, our digital reach
a ~30% uplift in key metrics like TD engagement—simplifying experiences
is expanding rapidly.
bookings, MF transactions, and credit through automation and digitisation
We’ve launched ‘One View’ on Axis card sales, along with a ~10–point to drive loyalty and growth. With
Mobile Banking App, ‘open’ that can higher NPS for ‘Siddhi’–led journeys. tools like ADI (our GenAI platform)
help customers see all their bank and Kaleidoscope (a unified customer
Our personalisation engine, live for
balances, track every transaction view), we’re empowering employees
over three years, scans over 30 million
undertaken with any other bank, to deliver faster, smarter service. Our
transactions daily, powering contextual
monitor borrowings, and view their Retail Bank NPS has jumped from
insights for the personal finance
entire investment portfolio—all in one 100 to 159 in three years, while rising
module in our mobile banking app—
seamless, intuitive dashboard. It’s a brand consideration reflects the deeper
driving significant conversion across
complete financial world, simplified emotional connect we’re building
select products.
and accessible at the fingertips. Our with customers.
efforts were recognised with the award
from Financial Express for the Best Bharat Banking: Expanding Reach, Empowering People, Enabling
Digital Bank (Private), reinforcing our Empowering Communities Progress
position as a digital–first, customer– Our Bharat Banking franchise continues
centric bank. to deliver healthy growth, with At Axis Bank, we believe that our
people are our greatest strength.
advances and deposits rising 7% and
To drive operational efficiency,
We continue to nurture an engaging,
9% respectively from rural and
we launched Axis Deep Intelligence
inclusive, and high–performance
(ADI)—a GenAI–powered internal
culture through bold, future–forward
chatbot now live across 5,500
initiatives. Programs like Thrive and
branches, supporting over
GIG–A, both industry–firsts, are
100,000 employees. Alongside,
redefining how we attract, retain, and
we continue to embed AI/ML,
empower talent.
74
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MD & CEO’s statement
These efforts are reflected in our The Bank has significantly scaled up prudence, we continued to invest
consistently high employee advocacy the integration of ESG into its overall meaningfully in building a more
scores and the many recognitions we’ve business strategy and agenda. Some sustainable, future–ready Axis Bank.
earned—including being certified as a of the ESG commitments include,
As we step into fiscal 2026, we are
Great Place to Work, ranked among scaling down exposure to carbon–
optimistic. With improving liquidity
the Top 50 Companies in BFSI, and intensive sectors, including Coal and
conditions and a supportive regulatory
securing the #5 spot in Fortune India’s Thermal Power, reaching 30% female
environment, the operating landscape
Future Ready Workplaces. representation in our workforce by
is turning more favourable. We believe
fiscal 2027 with 27.7% diversity ratio
We’ve significantly scaled up our that large, well–capitalised banks like
achieved by the end of fiscal 2025.
campus and academia partnerships, Axis with strong digital capabilities,
Incremental financing of ₹60,000
building a strong talent pipeline for innovative product suites, are best
crores under corporate banking
the future. This year, we also achieved suited to seize the opportunity.
to sectors with positive social and
a milestone in our Diversity, Equity
environmental outcomes, by fiscal 2030 Our relentless focus on customer
and Inclusion journey by hiring a
with ~₹48,412 crores sanctioned by the obsession, best–in–class digital
record number of women—affirming
end of fiscal 2025. Our commitment platforms across Retail and Wholesale,
our commitment to building a more
to sustainability continues to be and expanding distribution in Bharat
balanced and representative workforce.
recognised on global platforms. Axis gives us the edge to capture India’s
Bank was on the FTSE4Good Index next wave of growth. Our leadership
Axis for Good: Strengthening
for the eighth consecutive year. The in Digital and Payments continues
Communities, Sustaining Futures
Bank maintains an ‘A’ Rating by MSCI to unlock synergies and agility
We remain deeply committed to ESG Ratings and has improved its S&P across segments.
advancing a model of banking that Global ESG (DJSI) score by 10 points.
Over the past six years, we have
promotes inclusivity, equity, and It has an improved ESG Risk Rating of
transformed Axis into a stronger, more
environmental stewardship. Through 19.4 as of last full update - March 2025
consistent, and resilient franchise. With
our responsible corporate practices, by Sustainalytics.
every stride in technology, service,
we strive to uplift communities and
and culture, we are building not just
contribute to a more sustainable future. Staying the Course, Building for
a bank—but an all–weather institution,
Our efforts have positively impacted the Future
ready to thrive in every season.
over 2 million individuals, broadened
In fiscal 2025, we made bold and
educational opportunities, and Warm regards,
deliberate choices, prioritising
nurtured athletic talent from grassroots
profitability over growth as we Amitabh Chaudhry
to Olympic levels. These initiatives
reflect our ongoing dedication to navigated a complex macroeconomic Managing Director and
inclusive growth and a robust ESG and liquidity landscape with discipline Chief Executive Officer
and foresight. Even as we exercised
framework across the organisation.
We are leading with purpose—empowering
communities, enabling livelihoods, and embedding
sustainability into every facet of our business.
75
Business performance review
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
Navigating a shifting
world order
We remain agile and
responsive to the risks
posed by a challenging
global environment while
also capitalising on the Economic Environment
opportunities presented by
The slowdown in India’s economic as banks reduced credit growth,
a strong and resilient Indian
growth during fiscal 2025 was they also slowed down deposit
economy. We have raised primarily due to unintended fiscal creation, exacerbating the weak
our compliance thresholds and monetary tightening. liquidity injections from the RBI.
Two main fiscal challenges emerged: Moreover, the central bank’s foreign
to ensure the best interests
the union government’s fiscal deficit exchange interventions
of our stakeholders and
decreased by 80 basis points of ($ sales) resulted in a liquidity drain
customers, even as we aim GDP in both fiscal 2024 and fiscal of about D5 lakh crores, further
for industry–beating growth. 2025. Additionally, while spending increasing liquidity stress.
was front–loaded in fiscal 2024, it
However, actions taken by the RBI,
was backloaded in fiscal 2025 due
such as cutting the cash reserve ratio
to general elections, leading to a
(CRR), injecting durable liquidity
prolonged lull in government activity.
through bond purchases and
Fortunately, these challenges are
buy–sell foreign exchange swaps,
now easing, with the deficit in fiscal
reducing repo rates, rolling back risk
2026 expected to decrease by only
weights on lending to non–banking
40 basis points of GDP as spending
financial companies (NBFCs) and
patterns stabilise.
microfinance institutions (MFIs),
On the monetary side, after and implementing looser liquidity
accounting for a significant merger coverage ratio (LCR) regulations,
in the banking sector during fiscal have fostered a more favourable
2024, non–food credit growth environment for growth. With
declined from 16.3% in March 2024 inflation now falling below 4%,
to 10.9% y–o–y in March 2025. This the policy focus has shifted firmly
considerable drop was widespread, to stimulating growth. The banking
not limited to the unsecured loans system remains well–capitalised
segment, and was primarily driven by to support a growing economy,
supply factors. It was prompted by showing early indications of a
regulatory concerns over high loan– rebound in private investments,
to–deposit ratios (LDR) at certain while credit risks appear to be
banks. Consequently, under control.
76
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
External environment
Global Economic Outlook
The global economic system that discussions to further reduce them, Opportunities Identified
has functioned since World War II the prevailing uncertainty is likely to
The Indian economy is expected
is now undergoing a reset. hinder global growth as:
to maintain strong growth despite
The Trump administration views » Investment decisions will be challenges from abroad. It is among
its political role as addressing deferred until there is more the least affected globally, with
the significant rise in income clarity regarding tariffs and minimal direct impacts from initial
and wealth inequality in the US, exchange rates. US tariffs. There is also potential for
the decline of its manufacturing
shared gains due to the increasing
sector, and what it considers to
» Higher tariffs result in fiscal
momentum of the ‘China + 1’ trend.
tightening, among other
be the misuse of the multilateral
Enhancements in competitive
factors, which will lead to
institutions it has supported for
areas, such as infrastructure and
reduced consumption.
the last 80 years. Consequently,
the electronics value chain, are
it has initiated structural changes » Financial conditions will tighten anticipated to contribute positively.
in areas such as trade, taxes, due to uncertainty. India’s service exports, especially
regulations, immigration, currency,
from global capability centres, remain
and energy markets, among others.
strong. The underlying factors driving
Negotiations around these issues
Relevant Risks this include the disaggregation of
and the development of new
global service value chains, a rapid
engagement models are expected
boost in global cross–border telecom
to be contentious, potentially Credit Risk
capacity, and a rise in remote working,
resulting in an extended policy
all of which are expected to continue .
vacuum. The only limit on the Liquidity Risk
The recovery in the domestic
speed of this transition appears to
real estate market, along with the
be market volatility. Market Risk
alleviation of various challenges that
When uncertainty reaches a hindered economic growth last year,
Business Risk
certain threshold, markets can is likely to bolster credit demand.
become chaotic. Fear of such With improving liquidity conditions
chaos has led to a retreat from and the implementation of rate cuts,
excessively disruptive actions credit growth should rise from its
on several occasions. Despite current state. However, the significant
some tariff rollbacks and ongoing uncertainty from US trade policies
and fluctuations in financial markets
may delay corporate investments and
weaken their demand for loans.
Our Strategic Response
The Bank navigates the global economic reset with a calibrated strategy that balances prudence and
opportunity. As uncertainties around trade, tariffs, and capital flows persist, we are strengthening our risk
management systems to address liquidity, market, and credit risks. At the same time, we are capitalising on
India’s relative insulation from global disruptions by deepening support for sectors aligned with the
‘China + 1’ strategy, such as infrastructure, electronics, and services exports. Our focused lending to global
capability centres, SMEs, and real estate segments allows us to capture the revival of domestic demand. We
are also enhancing agility through diversified credit portfolios and dynamic liquidity management.
77
Business performance review
Technology Evolution and Artificial Intelligence
The rapid evolution of technology, interfaces to deliver
led by advancements in Artificial hyper–personalised, intuitive, and Relevant Risks
Intelligence (AI), machine learning, proactive financial services,
cloud computing, and blockchain, redefining how users interact Information and Cyber
fundamentally reshapes the with digital platforms. In India, the Security Risks
global financial ecosystem. momentum of digital transformation
Technology Risk
Generative AI is paving the way remains unparalleled. Initiatives such
for enhanced productivity by as the Jan Dhan–Aadhaar–Mobile
Regulatory and
improving decision–making, (JAM) trinity, DigiLocker, and the
Compliance Risk
personalising engagement Unified Payments Interface (UPI) have
on a large scale, streamlining revolutionised access to financial Operational Risk
operations, and driving innovation services, promoting significant
growth. Financial institutions financial inclusion and facilitating
worldwide are integrating AI into over 150 billion transactions in fiscal
Opportunities Identified
essential functions such as credit 2025. Scheduled Commercial Banks
assessment, fraud detection, and (SCBs) increasingly leverage artificial » Scale digital lending, collections,
customer engagement, as digital intelligence, predictive analytics, and customer service through
adoption accelerates across customer service automation, next–generation platforms.
various regions, driven by mobile and cloud–native architectures to » Drive operational efficiency and
banking, UPI transactions, and enhance innovation and operational superior customer engagement
cohesive digital ecosystems. resilience. Notable milestones, via AI–led IT operations,
including the scaling up of the Central marketing automation, and
An emerging trend in this
Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) conversational interfaces.
transformation is the rise of pilot and the 24/7 availability of » Lead in future–ready payments
AI–first app experiences, where payment systems, reaffirm India’s by leveraging advancements in
applications are designed from the
commitment to establishing a resilient, UPI 2.0 and Central Bank Digital
ground up with AI at their core.
customer–centric digital economy Currency (CBDC) ecosystems.
These applications leverage
governed by robust ethical and
real–time data, predictive
regulatory frameworks.
intelligence, and conversational
Our Strategic Response
We are enhancing our digital lending, collections, and customer service capabilities through next–generation
platforms, including SARAL for collections, Axis Digital Loans, and the expansion of ‘open’ by Axis Bank, our
proprietary digital banking platform. Leveraging AI innovations like Adi (our Generative AI chatbot) and the
Kaleidoscope real–time CXM platform, we improve operational efficiency, enable real–time query resolutions,
and deliver hyper–personalised customer journeys. Concurrently, the Bank is at the forefront of India’s
payment revolution by reinforcing its leadership in UPI 2.0, introducing new offerings such as Gold on UPI,
and engaging in the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) pilot initiatives.
78
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
External environment
Climate Resilience and ESG Integration
In fiscal 2025, the imperative to At the same time, the RBI introduced Opportunities Identified
build climate resilience and embed its final framework for Climate–related » Tap into the growing demand for
ESG principles into core business Financial Disclosures, laying the
green bonds, transition finance,
strategies gained unprecedented groundwork for a more systematic
renewable energy lending, and
momentum. Globally, regulatory approach to managing climate risks
sustainability–linked loans.
focus on climate–related within the financial sector. Our key » Leverage rising ESG–focused
financial risks intensified, with priorities include implementing
investor pools and green
the Basel Committee on Banking climate risk stress testing frameworks,
capital inflows to strengthen
Supervision (BCBS) advancing enhancing transparency through
funding diversity and enhance
efforts to integrate climate risks robust ESG disclosures, and scaling
brand equity.
into prudential standards. financing solutions supporting positive » Offer differentiated customer
environmental and social outcomes.
In India, the government’s solutions across Retail and
‘Amrit Kaal’ vision catalysed Corporate banking in sectors
transformative investments such as electric mobility, clean
in renewable energy, digital power generation, rooftop
innovation, and sustainable solar for MSMEs, and green
infrastructure, reinforcing the Relevant Risks home loans.
country’s leadership in green
Impact of Climate
development. Regulatory
Risk–related aspects on
momentum continued to build,
Credit Risk
such as SEBI mandating reasonable
assurance on select BRSR Core
Operational Risk
KPIs to enhance the credibility of
sustainability reporting.
Our Strategic Response
The Bank is capitalising on sustainable finance by expanding its portfolio in ESG-aligned sectors and
activities, actively raising green capital and piloting new green initiatives in both retail and wholesale banking.
We engage with ESG–focused investors and leverage green capital to diversify funding, enhance balance
sheet resilience, and reaffirm our role as a responsible institution. Simultaneously, we provide tailored
financial solutions for sectors like electric mobility, solar energy, clean infrastructure, and sustainable MSMEs.
Our ESG governance framework has been strengthened through Board–level oversight, cross–functional
integration, and incorporation of climate risk into credit, investment, and risk assessment processes.
We refine sectoral exposure assessments to identify climate–sensitive portfolios and have introduced
environmental risk screens for high–impact industries. We deepen client partnerships by co–developing
transition finance pathways and helping borrowers align with India’s climate objectives. With ongoing
investment in capacity building, ESG data digitisation, and collaborations, Axis Bank is addressing climate
risks and promoting a low–carbon financial future. These actions are vital to our long–term vision of creating
sustainable, purpose–driven value that meets stakeholder expectations.
79
Business performance review
Cyber Security and Data Privacy
In fiscal 2025, the cyber security to–end cyber security frameworks Opportunities Identified
and data privacy landscape that are proactive, adaptive, and » Enhance digital trust and
became increasingly complex, resilient. Investment in multi–layered
brand equity by delivering
shaped by the accelerating pace defence architectures, AI–driven
secure, privacy–first banking
of digital adoption, the rise of threat intelligence, cloud security
experiences aligned with rising
sophisticated threat actors, certifications, and employee cyber
regulatory expectations.
and heightened regulatory security awareness programs has » Strengthen cyber resilience by
scrutiny. Financial institutions become essential to mitigating
leveraging centralised threat
worldwide faced growing emerging risks and safeguarding
intelligence frameworks,
demands to strengthen digital stakeholder trust.
such as Sectoral Security
resilience, protect sensitive
Operations Centre (SSOC), for
customer information, and ensure
proactive risk management and
uninterrupted service delivery Relevant Risks
industry leadership.
amid evolving threat environments.
Information and Cyber
Regulatory developments, security Risk
including enhanced incident
reporting norms, stricter cloud Technology Risk
security protocols, India’s Digital
Personal Data Protection Act Regulatory and
(DPDPA), and SEBI’s Cyber Compliance Risk
security and Cyber Resilience
Framework (CSCRF), reinforced Operational Risk
the criticality of robust, end–
Our Strategic Response
We have invested significantly in building a robust, multi–layered security architecture powered by
AI–driven threat detection, real–time monitoring, and cloud security enhancements. Our ISO certifications
for AWS and Azure cloud security, as well as our best–in–class BitSight security ratings, reaffirm our
leadership in digital trust. Leveraging sectoral initiatives like the SSOC, we are enhancing threat intelligence
sharing and strengthening our ability to respond swiftly to evolving cyber risks.
80
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
External environment
Talent and the Future of Work
The cultivation of talent, the social, and governance (ESG) factors, Opportunities Identified
promotion of inclusion, and the cyber security, and data analytics . » Reimagine roles and workflows
provision of future–ready career Organisations responded by expanding
by deploying AI–assisted
paths have emerged as fundamental their digital learning ecosystems,
productivity tools to enhance
components in the creation of integrating artificial intelligence and
efficiency, innovation, and
sustainable stakeholder value. As the future skills into employee development
customer responsiveness.
dynamics of the work environment initiatives, enhancing internal mobility
progress, the necessity to establish programs, and making substantial » Deepen employee engagement
dynamic, empowered, and diverse investments in frontline leadership and organisational agility
workforces has never been more development. Initiatives designed to through learning–led internal
pronounced. In fiscal 2025, the promote mental health, workplace mobility and inclusive
labour landscape in India experienced resilience, diversity, equity, and inclusion leadership development.
rapid acceleration, propelled by the (DE&I) were prioritised as essential pillars » Attract and retain
increasing demand for digital fluency , of organisational strategy.
future–ready talent by building
readiness for artificial intelligence,
a culture anchored in trust,
hybrid and flexible working models ,
purposeful growth, and
Relevant Risks
and a heightened emphasis on
digital empowerment.
employee wellbeing.
Operational Risk
The Banking, Financial Services,
and Insurance (BFSI) sector
Human Capital Risk
encountered significant competition
for specialised talent in technology, Conduct Risk
risk and compliance, environmental,
Our Strategic Response
At Axis Bank, we are committed to shaping the future of work through innovation, inclusion, and agility .
By leveraging AI–powered tools across the employee lifecycle, from talent acquisition and assessments to
HR query resolution and employee listening, we are enhancing decision–making, reducing turnaround time, and
improving employee experience at scale.
Internal career growth is a key pillar of our talent strategy. Platforms like Catalyst under the ‘Thrive’ program have
fortified our mobility framework, resulting in increased internal movements and cross–functional transitions .
Coupled with leadership development programs such as 1000 Change Leaders, High–performing Leaders, and
BetterUp Coaching, we are nurturing a pipeline of future–ready leaders.
Our flexible work model, including GIG–A Opportunities and hybrid schedules, empowers remote associates and
freelancers to join the workforce and contribute. Through these initiatives, we have broadened our talent reach ,
enhanced diversity, and supported work–life balance without compromising on productivity.
We have also reimagined learning through role–based, digital–first platforms that focus on future skills in
areas such as ESG finance, compliance, and digital banking, delivered through a unified HCM suite acros s
all subsidiaries.
By combining advanced technology with inclusive and human–centric practices, Axis Bank is building a resilient ,
future–ready workforce equipped to lead through change and deliver sustained value.
81
Business performance review
Regulatory and Policy Landscape
In fiscal 2025, the regulatory and obligations, consent mechanisms, data Opportunities Identified
policy landscape for the banking principal rights, and establishing the » Lead responsible digital
sector underwent substantial Data Protection Board of India.
innovation by embedding
evolution, reflecting an intensified
In parallel, the Securities and Exchange compliance–by–design
focus on financial stability, digital
Board of India (SEBI) operationalised across products, services,
innovation, climate resilience, and
reasonable assurance requirements and operations.
consumer protection. The Reserve for select Business Responsibility » Strengthen investor and
Bank of India (RBI) introduced key
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) stakeholder trust through
measures, including enhanced
Core metrics for the top 150 listed transparent, high–quality ESG
cyber security, outsourcing of
entities, significantly strengthening the and cyber security disclosures.
IT services, and IT governance
credibility of corporate sustainability
risk, controls, and assurance
disclosures. Internationally, regulatory
guidelines. The RBI also finalised
momentum on AI governance,
the framework for climate–related
sustainable finance, and digital
financial disclosures, tightened
assets continued to influence policy
macroprudential norms around
thinking in India, reinforcing the
unsecured lending, and reinforced
need for integrated risk management
liquidity management standards
and responsible innovation across
to mitigate emerging systemic
the sector.
risks. In early 2025, the Ministry
of Electronics and Information
Technology (MeitY) released
the Draft Digital Personal Data
Protection (DPDP) Rules, 2025, for Relevant Risks
public consultation. These rules
are intended to provide detailed Regulatory and
guidelines for implementing the Compliance Risk
DPDP Act, covering data fiduciary
Our Strategic Response
The Bank employs a compliance–by–design approach across its products, services, and operations to lead
in responsible digital innovation. By integrating regulatory requirements, the bank guarantees that its new
offerings in digital banking, artificial intelligence, payment solutions, and open banking are developed with
strong security, privacy, and governance frameworks. At the same time, the Bank is building investor and
stakeholder trust by enhancing the quality and transparency of its environmental, social, and governance
(ESG) and cyber security disclosures. This includes proactive alignment with the SEBI’s updated BRSR
assurance norms, the RBI’s new Outsourcing of IT Services and IT Governance Risk, Control, and Assurance
guidelines, and global best practices in climate and data reporting.
82
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
External environment
Making a Positive Change in Society
In fiscal 2025, India’s social Against this backdrop, the financial Opportunities Identified
landscape was shaped by services sector fosters inclusive » Expand financial services
accelerated digital adoption, growth. Institutions are expanding
access by tapping into
rising aspirations across rural their reach into Bharat markets,
rural, semi–urban, and
and semi–urban markets, and empowering small businesses and
underbanked markets.
a heightened focus on financial rural entrepreneurs, promoting
inclusion, education, healthcare, digital financial literacy, and designing » Promote inclusive growth by
and sustainability. The rapid products tailored to underserved providing targeted support to
expansion of mobile connectivity, segments. In parallel, industry–led women entrepreneurs, small
digital payment ecosystems, and initiatives focused on livelihood businesses, and community
government–led social welfare generation, women’s empowerment, development initiatives.
programs continued to drive education, healthcare access, » Strengthen brand trust and
broader economic empowerment, and sustainable development are
loyalty by aligning with societal
particularly among underserved becoming central to corporate
expectations of sustainability,
communities. Concurrently, citizenship strategies.
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
societal expectations regarding
corporate responsibility,
community engagement, and
Relevant Risks
advancing diversity, equity, and
inclusion (DE&I) intensified,
Business Risk
influencing how businesses engage
with stakeholders and contribute
Operational Risk
to social development.
Reputation Risk
Our Strategic Response
The Bank strategically enhances its presence across the Bharat markets through its dedicated Bharat
Banking franchise, which offers customised financial solutions for rural and semi–urban customers.
We persist in empowering women entrepreneurs and Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) by
augmenting access to affordable credit, skill development, and financial literacy initiatives. We implement
expansive livelihood, education, and healthcare programs aligned with national development priorities
under our CSR focus. Moreover, by profoundly integrating sustainability, diversity, and community
engagement into our corporate ethos, we strengthen stakeholder trust and cultivate a socially responsible ,
future–ready institution.
83
Business performance review
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Strengthening our
House of GPS
Rooted in our core
philosophy of Growth,
Profitability and
Sustainability, the House
of GPS has evolved into a
powerful engine that drives
us forward. In fiscal 2025,
we continued to enrich
this strategic framework,
enabling us to deliver
with distinctiveness In 2019, we launched our ‘Growth four key themes for the Bank –
while strengthening our Profitability and Sustainability’ ‘Deposit Mobilisation’, ‘People
strategy, also known as the Proposition’, ‘Operational Risk &
digital leadership and
‘House of GPS’, to provide a Compliance Culture’, and
execution excellence.
unifying framework to our ‘Execution Excellence’.
versatile team, who serve as
In 2024, we added ‘Leveraging
a cornerstone of our strength
Emerging Technologies’, which
and adaptability.
includes Generative AI and Intelligent
The overall strategy of the Bank
Automation, as one of the key
and that of its specific businesses
enablers for the Bank.
and functions are aligned with
our core philosophy – Growth, To build on the ‘Execution Excellence’
Profitability, and Sustainability. theme as part of the Sustainability
pillar, the Bank has set up a dedicated
As part of our annual review of the
project management team that
House of GPS in 2021, we added
has started deploying appropriate
two elements of distinctiveness
execution frameworks to improve
– ‘Sparsh’ (Deliver world–class
the pace and efficiency
customer experience) and ‘Bharat’
of project execution.
(Build India’s most profitable
Bharat banking franchise), The House of GPS, as it stands today,
with an overarching focus on continues to reflect our aspirations
‘Digital’ (Leadership in digital and and remains relevant. We have a
technology). responsibility to propel our business
towards success by prioritising the
Then, in 2023 we bolstered our
GPS strategy and the key themes,
Sustainability pillar by including
as well as focusing on our values.
84
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Strategy in action
We have strengthened our ‘House of GPS’ with distinctiveness and identified focus
themes to taking charge
GPS strategy
Sustained, Consistent Financial
Outperformance
Identified areas of distinctiveness with
» Deliver world class customer focus on Customer Obsession ‘SPARSH’
and serving the high growth potential RuSu
experience led by project ‘Sparsh’
» Build India’s most profitable markets as part of Bharat Banking
Bharat Banking franchise Leadership in Digital and Technology to drive
» Leadership in Digital with productivity, scale and profitability
best–in–class capabilities
Growth Profitability
» Deposit Mobilisation to drive loan growth Structural improvement in quality
» Driving higher growth in high RAROC of earnings with consistent delivery
focus segments positions us well for the future
» Creating multiplicative forces to build
competitive advantage
Sustainability
» Strengthened Governance and Culture across
operational risk, audit and compliance
» Strong balance sheet with best–in–class asset
quality metrics and self–sustaining capital Bolstered the Sustainability elements
structure to fund growth with focus on Executional Excellence,
» Our cutting–edge data analytics capabilities People Proposition, and Operational Risk
and leadership in technology continue to and Compliance
accelerate our distinctiveness journey
» Enhancing People Proposition and
Executional Excellence
Our Core
Values
Customer Ethics Ownership Transparency Teamwork
Centricity
85
Business performance review
(Small and Medium Enterprises) » The Bank’s wealth management
+ MC (Mid Corporate) have business is among the largest in
collectively scaled up significantly, India with AUM of ₹5.92 trillion as
delivering a CAGR of 26% (from at end of March 31, 2025 that grew
fiscal 2021 to fiscal 2025) despite 10% y–o–y
the tightening of our risk standards;
» With a rating of 4.7 on Google Play
focus segments (SBB+SME+MC)
Store and 4.8 on iOS App Store,
of the Bank has seen improvement
Growth ‘open’ by Axis Bank ranks among
in contribution mix from 15.3% to
the world’s highest rated mobile
22.7% of overall book over the last
» Led by our focus on building banking app, doubling up as our
four years
granularity across businesses and largest branch
strong focus on execution, we have » We are now the 4th largest credit
» Created multiplicative forces
delivered strong growth across our card player, issued 3.47 million
through the unification under
focused segments credit cards in fiscal 2025 and
‘One Axis’, partnerships and
attained CIF (Cards in force) market
» We saw a 10% y–o–y increase in new age tech platforms to win
share of 13.7%
overall deposits and 14% y–o–y across businesses
increase in term deposits; this
growth was complemented by
an adequate liquidity buffer, with 22.7 14
% %
an average LCR of 119% for the
quarter ended on March 31, 2025 Contribution of focus segments Increase in term deposits
to the overall book y–o–y in fiscal 2025
» Amongst our focus segments, SBB
(Small Business Banking) + SME
» We continued to build granularity
in our fee income with granular fee
(Retail, Transaction banking, Trade,
Forex and Financial institutional
payments–related fee) constituting
89% of overall fees, with overall fee
income growing by 11% y–o–y
» Total PAT of operating subsidiaries
grew by 11% y–o–y and return
Profitability
on investments in domestic
» We delivered a healthy operating subsidiaries stood at 46%
performance, with Net interest
income growing by 9% y–o–y
and Operating profit growing by
8.93 2.46
13% y–o–y % %
» Our cost–to–assets ratio remained Growth in Net Interest Costs–to–assets ratio in
stable at 2.46% fiscal 2025 as we Income (NII) in fiscal 2025 fiscal 2025
continued to focus on building
cost–consciousness across the Bank
86
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Strategy in action
best tech bank; we became the Siddhi
1st Indian Bank to be ISO certified
Our super app, which empowers
for AWS and Azure Cloud security,
Axis colleagues to engage
and roll–out of MS GenAI Co–pilot
seamlessly with customers, has
» 100% Agile adoption for all relevant 90,000+ active users and 30+
systems, thereby driving business product journeys
value through agile transformation » We have a distinctive people
Sustainability » Inherent strengths in Bharat proposition, ‘Thrive’, which helps
Banking give us the right to win us retain high quality talent to
» We have bolstered our risk in RuSu (Rural and Semi–urban ‘run’/‘change’ the Bank
frameworks and institutionalised
markets) – 2,736 Bharat Banking
Our five core values viz. Customer
culture changes, which gives us
branches (as on March 31, 2025),
Centricity, Ethics, Ownership,
confidence that the franchise will
7% y–o–y growth in rural advances
Transparency and Teamwork continue
remain resilient through cycles
in fiscal 2025
to underpin all activities of the Bank.
» We added a layer between our
» Our tools to set us apart in the
1st line of defence (CAROs) and
next decade:
assurance functions – OH&C 7
%
(Operational Health & Compliance) Sparsh
Growth in Bharat Banking
team and Financial Crime Our customer obsession program
Advances in fiscal 2025
Intelligence Unit has yielded results; our Retail Net
» Best–in–class digital and analytics Promoter Score (NPS) of 159 (as 90,000
on March 31, 2025) has moved +
capabilities, coupled with our
strategy to leverage new emerging up by 59 points since the baseline Active users of ‘Siddhi’ app,
technologies such as GenAI, puts us score in Q1FY23 which has 30+ product journeys
on a path to become India’s
Our ESG Progress and Aspirations
Green Sustainable
Governance Social
Operations Financing
1st Indian Bank 2.8 Million ~18,732 tCO e ~ D 22,160 crores
2
To constitute an Women participants GHG emissions Green lending portfolio
ESG Committee of in microfinance avoided annually by
~51,000 crores
the Board rural lending various operational
eco–efficiency initiatives Total value of proposals
61.54% 387,467
reviewed under the
34.48 Metric Tons
Independent Directors Households ESG policy for lending
on the Board positively impacted Of Battery waste in fiscal 2025
in fiscal 2025 recycled (through
98%+ D 500 million
under the Bank’s authorised vendors)
Of eligible employees flagship Sustainable raised by partnering
2 MW
trained in AML & Livelihoods program with IFC to scale
related laws Captive solar power up green and blue
27.7%
plant, reducing our financing in India – IFC’s
Workforce diversity carbon emissions first–ever blue
investment in India and
the India’s first blue loan
issued by a financial
institution
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
87
Business performance review
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Sustained momentum,
strong fundamentals
Axis Bank delivered steady growth in fiscal 2025, with a five–year market share gain
of 5.5% in deposits and 5.7% in advances. A 46% return on domestic subsidiaries,
robust provision buffers, and 1.15% standard asset coverage ratio reflect our consistent
performance and sharp execution.
Balance Sheet
Capital & Reserves and Surplus (I in crores) Total Assets (I in crores)
19% 15% 9% 13%
FY 2024–25 178,617 FY 2024–25 1,609,930
FY 2023–24 150,235 FY 2023–24 1,477,209
FY 2022–23 124,993 FY 2022–23 1,317,326
FY 2021–22 115,025 FY 2021–22 1,175,429
FY 2020–21 101,603 FY 2020–21 986,798
Total Advances (I in crores) Total Deposits (I in crores)
8% 14% 10% 14%
FY 2024–25 1,040,811 FY 2024–25 1,172,952
FY 2023–24 965,068 FY 2023–24 1,068,641
FY 2022–23 845,303 FY 2022–23 946,945
FY 2021–22 707,947 FY 2021–22 821,721
FY 2020–21 614,399 FY 2020–21 697,985
Current Account and Savings
Account (CASA) (I in crores) Book Value Per Share (I)
4% 11% 18% 15%
FY 2024–25 478,188 FY 2024–25 577
FY 2023–24 459,401 FY 2023–24 487
FY 2022–23 446,536 FY 2022–23 406
FY 2021–22 370,006 FY 2021–22 375
FY 2020–21 317,749 FY 2020–21 332
y–o–y growth 4 year CAGR
88
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Key performance indicators
Profit and Loss
Rupee Earned (%) Rupee Spent (%)
2 3 5
6
66 46
14 Interest from advances 18 Interest expense
Income from investments Operating expenses
Commission, exchange, brokerage Transfer to reserve Others
15
Other interest income Tax
25
Others Provisions
Net Interest Income (NII) (I in crores)
Operating Revenue (I in crores) Net Interest Margin (NIM) (%)
10% 18% 9% 17%
3.98
FY 2024–25 79,605 FY 2024–25 54,348
4.07
FY 2023–24 72,336 FY 2023–24 49,894
4.02
FY 2022–23 59,089 FY 2022–23 42,946
3.47
FY 2021–22 48,353 FY 2021–22 33,132
3.53
FY 2020–21 41,503 FY 2020–21 29,239
Operating Profit (I in crores) Net Profit (I in crores)
13% 18% 6% 41%
FY 2024–25 42,105 FY 2024–25 26,373
FY 2023–24 37,123 FY 2023–24 24,861
FY 2022–23 32,048* FY 2022–23 21,933*
FY 2021–22 24,742 FY 2021–22 13,025
FY 2020–21 23,128 FY 2020–21 6,589
Earnings Per Share (Basic) (I)
6% 40%
FY 2024–25 85.28
FY 2023–24 80.67
FY 2022–23 71.37*
FY 2021–22 42.48
FY 2020–21 22.15
y–o–y growth 4 year CAGR
*Excluding exceptional items
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
89
Business performance review
Key Ratios
Return on Equity (ROE) (%) Return on Assets (ROA) (%)
FY 2024–25 16.52 FY 2024–25 1.74
FY 2023–24 18.86 FY 2023–24 1.83
FY 2022–23 18.38* FY 2022–23 1.82*
FY 2021–22 12.91 FY 2021–22 1.21
FY 2020–21 7.55 FY 2020–21 0.70
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) Tier 1 Capital (%)
FY 2024–25 17.07 FY 2024–25 14.67
FY 2023–24 16.63 FY 2023–24 14.20
FY 2022–23 17.64 FY 2022–23 14.57
FY 2021–22 18.54 FY 2021–22 16.34
FY 2020–21 19.12 FY 2020–21 16.47
Cost to Asset Ratio (%) Provision Coverage Ratio (%)
FY 2024–25 2.46 FY 2024–25 75
FY 2023–24 2.55 FY 2023–24 79
FY 2022–23 2.25 FY 2022–23 81
FY 2021–22 2.17 FY 2021–22 75
FY 2020–21 1.96 FY 2020–21 72
Gross NPA (%) Net NPA (%)
FY 2024–25 1.28 FY 2024–25 0.33
FY 2023–24 1.43 FY 2023–24 0.31
FY 2022–23 2.02 FY 2022–23 0.39
FY 2021–22 2.82 FY 2021–22 0.73
FY 2020–21 3.70 FY 2020–21 1.05
Highlights of Subsidiaries^
11 11 45 33 9
% % % % %
in PAT of domestic in Axis Finance in Axis Securities in Axis Capital Revenue in Axis AMC
subsidiaries PAT Broking Revenue from operations Equity QAAUM
*Excluding exceptional items
^y–o–y growth
90
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Key performance indicators
People
Gender Diversity (%)
Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023
72.3% 27.7% 75.0% 25.0% 74.3% 25.7%
Workforce by Age (%) Women in frontline staff^ (%)
14% 1% FY 2024–25 56.5
43% FY 2023–24 52.4
< 30 years FY 2022–23 54.5
31–40 years
Fiscal 2025
41–50 years
50 years & above
42%
Community
CSR Spend* (I in crores) Lives Impacted# (No. in million)
FY 2024–25 427 FY 2024–25 2.05
FY 2023–24 269 FY 2023–24 1.70
FY 2022–23 202 FY 2022–23 1.30
*Includes amount transferred to Unspent CSR accounts to be utilised in ongoing programs in subsequent years
#Cumulatively under the Sustainable Livelihoods Program
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
^Out of total women in workforce
91
Business performance review
MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT – RETAIL BANKING
Delivering sustainable and
profitable growth
Munish Sharda Arjun Chowdhry
Executive Director Group Executive
(Retail Liabilities, Branch Banking, (Affluent Banking,
Bharat Banking, Commercial Retail Lending, Cards &
Banking Group, and Retail Payments)
Portfolio Management Group)
Dear Shareholders,
Fiscal 2025 has been a year marked business, and the prudent expansion dominant position in cards, payments,
by strategic discipline and thoughtful of our loan portfolio. This segment and wealth management, while
navigation through a complex remains a key engine of our growth, adopting a calibrated growth approach
operating environment. Amidst a driven by a sharp customer–first in the unsecured retail segment. On
backdrop of subdued systemic deposit mindset, a suite of innovative and the digital payment front, we continue
growth and emerging challenges in differentiated products, and one of the to lead with distinction holding a
select areas of the retail unsecured most extensive distribution networks dominant position in the UPI Payer
segment, we remained focused in the country having 5,876 branches PSP space and credit cards.
on improving deposit quality and with a record 500 branches opened
Customer satisfaction continues
portfolio resilience driving long–term in fiscal 2025. These pillars empower
to be our true north. Through
value creation. us to meet the evolving financial
our forward–looking Customer
aspirations of millions across India.
Our Retail Banking business continues Experience program, we’re creating
to anchor our GPS strategy, delivering The quality of our deposit franchise ‘wow’ moments at every touchpoint—
balanced, risk–adjusted growth. We is getting stronger with further empowering our employees to deliver
have taken deliberate steps toward granularisation and we continue to truly memorable interaction for our
building a high–quality, premium witness sustained growth across our customers. This has translated into
Retail Banking franchise—defined priority business segments like SBB stronger customer engagement,
by an improved deposit base, strong and Rural Banking. We’ve maintained deeper loyalty, and growing advocacy.
progress in our wealth management Our sharp focus on experience has
92
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Message from the management – Retail banking
propelled a significant improvement in Blending ambition with expertise
our Retail Net Promoter Score (NPS). to create a new era of aspirational
The seamless integration of the Citi banking.
consumer businesses has positioned Our deposit franchise
Premiumisation of the deposits
us across the spectrum, turbocharging
is being reimagined on franchise continues to be an important
our journey towards becoming a
the pillars of quality, imperative for the Bank. We are
premium retail banking powerhouse.
accelerating our premiumisation
cost, and growth—
journey with a sharp focus on
Reimagining Deposits: Building a creating a stronger,
high–value customer segments.
Stronger, Smarter Franchise
smarter foundation Our Burgundy franchise continues to
At Axis Bank, our deposit journey is for sustainable thrive, with assets under management
anchored in three strategic pillars– (AUM) growing 10% y–o–y. Burgundy
value creation.
quality, cost, and growth. Private, the private banking franchise
of the Bank catering to the UHNI
We’ve sharpened the quality of our
segment, continues to grow strongly
deposit book by improving granularity
with coverage expanding to 44 cities
and focusing on LCR accretive
managing an AUM of ₹2.13 trillion (up
deposits. Consequently, over the
While fiscal 2025 posed challenges 16% y–o–y) across ~13,400 families
past three years, we’ve improved our
for Existing–to–Bank (ETB) deposits (up 26% y–o–y), which includes 35 of
outflow ratio by 340 basis points, now
due to tight liquidity and reduced the Forbes 100 richest Indians. This
aligning with the best in class among
government flows, we are now momentum has been recognised on
large peer banks.
seeing early signs of recovery. Our the global stage, with our Burgundy
On the cost front, our disciplined overarching focus is on deepening Private offering being named India’s
approach has kept the increase in cost relationships, controlling attrition, and Best for Next Gen at the Euromoney
of funds to just 7 basis points over becoming the primary bank of choice Global Private Banking Awards 2025.
the last four quarters, despite a tight as we see a powerful opportunity The Bank also won FT_PWM Wealth
liquidity environment. in our existing customer base—not Tech Awards 2025 for best CRM for
just to grow balances, but to drive Private Banking in Asia.
Our deposit growth engine is gaining
sustainable value. Through smart,
momentum as the Bank gained an A key milestone in this transformation
contextual journeys and timely
incremental market share of 5.5% in was the successful integration of
solutions, we are creating a seamless
total deposits over the last five years. Citi’s consumer business in July 2024,
banking experience that grows with
With a healthy pipeline of acquisitions, redefining the scale and scope for Axis
our customers and strengthens
strategic expansion, innovative Bank in the premium segment.
long–term engagement. In fiscal 2025,
product launches, and improving
systemic deposit growth remained During the year, the Bank introduced
performance in salary credits and
subdued, primarily constrained by several new product propositions,
Burgundy AUMs, we’re beginning to
the persistent tightness in durable including the ‘ARISE’ savings account
see early signs of sustained deposit
liquidity, muted government spending, for women and the Doctors Banking
growth. As liquidity conditions
and enhanced efficiency in the Program, to offer the best banking
ease and key portfolios stabilise,
management of government balances. services and life experiences under
our efforts should translate into
However, with liquidity conditions one bouquet.
tangible outcomes.
having considerably improved post the
The New–to–Bank (NTB) savings RBI action, the macro environment is
account franchise is a standout poised to become more conducive for
performer—NTB deposits grew 19% deposit mobilisation. These tailwinds,
y–o–y despite granular balances per coupled with more accommodative
account rising 17% y–o–y, reflecting monetary policy stance could result in
deeper customer engagement. a better deposit growth trajectory in
fiscal 2026.
93
Business performance review
Driving Quality Loan Growth and 47% for credit cards, reflecting This growth is underpinned by
with Precision and Purpose our disciplined approach to customer a digital–first approach–e–KYC,
selection and portfolio construction. e–NACH, e–Sign, and e–Stamp are
Our SBB portfolio grew a strong
~20% of credit cards acquired in fiscal now integral to our customer journeys.
17% y–o–y, while our Rural portfolio
2025 were through Known to Bank We’ve gone fully digital in our MFI–
expanded by 7% as we continue to
(KTB) channel. retail, Farm Mechanisation verticals
pursue balanced, RAROC–led growth
and are set to onboard key segments
in our retail segment. Notably, nearly
Powering Progress Across Bharat: like Bharat Enterprise B2B Retail,
72% of our retail book remains
Banking that Builds Communities Farmer Funding (KCC), and Micro–LAP
secured, underscoring the strength
in fiscal 2026. We are also enhancing
and resilience of our portfolio. Our Bharat Banking franchise
operational risk controls and launching
continues to be a powerful engine
Retail continues to be the engine of instant digital CASA journeys to
of inclusive growth, delivering
the Bank’s granular performance– further accelerate deposit growth.
healthy performance PSL assets and
contributing 60% of total advances,
expanding our footprint across rural With deep distribution, a robust digital
and 72% of the Bank’s fee income in
and semi–urban India. In fiscal 2025, backbone, a thriving partnership
fiscal 2025. By leveraging our robust
our rural advances and deposits ecosystem, and proven expertise
digital infrastructure and advanced
grew by 7% and 9%, respectively. in rural lending, we are poised to
data analytics, we are enhancing
Our distribution network now spans become a dominant force in Bharat.
operational efficiency and decision–
2,736 branches, supported by a Our focus remains on deepening
making.
formidable 28,000+ CSC Village engagement, enhancing profitability,
The unsecured retail segment is Level Entrepreneurs network. With scaling alternate revenue streams, and
exhibiting industry–wide stress, driven 250+ new branches added this year driving sustainable, inclusive growth
by increased credit appetite and signs and over 25 strategic partnerships across India.
of over-leverage in certain pockets, across Agri–tech, Fintech, NBFCs, and
particularly in personal loans (PL), corporates, we are reaching deeper Redefining Payments: Scaling
cards and micro–finance segment MFI into the heart of Bharat. Innovation, Deepening Impact
portfolio is only ~1.2% of the Bank’s
India’s payments landscape is
total retail loans. We are navigating
undergoing a paradigm shift—and
this evolving credit landscape
Axis Bank is at the forefront of
with agility.
this transformation. As customer
In the unsecured retail segment, preferences evolve and digital
Retail remains the
including MFI, we are seeing a adoption accelerates, we are seizing
engine of the Bank’s
normalisation cycle. Proactive risk the moment to lead with innovation,
management framework—anchored granular performance, scale, and precision. In fiscal 2025, our
in real–time portfolio monitoring, contributing 60% of payments business continued to be
early warning triggers, and dynamic a cornerstone of our Retail strategy,
advances and 72% of
policy recalibration—has ensured that driving engagement and growth.
fee income. With 72%
delinquencies in new cohorts remain
With ~15 million credit cards in force
well within our guardrails. of our book secured
and a 14% market share at the end
and 100% of personal
We continue to strengthen the core of fiscal 2025, having 20% share of
pillars of our risk architecture— loans with salaried KTB sourcing in total card issuances
scorecards, policy, and underwriting— customers, we are in fiscal 2025, our credit card business
while tightening standards through achieved 12% growth in spends with
building a franchise
deliberate business mix choices. Our a spends market share of ~11% in
that is both high–
focus on quality is evident: 100% of fiscal 2025.
our personal loan portfolio and 79% performing and
of our credit card book is with salaried high–quality.
customers. Existing to bank (ETB)
mix stands at 79% for personal loans
94
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Message from the management – Retail banking
Leading with Innovation: Elevating With top–rated apps and a relentless
Digital Banking focus on innovation, we are setting
new benchmarks in digital banking for
Axis Bank’s digital banking momentum
Axis Bank is redefining India’s evolving financial landscape.
continues to accelerate, driven by
digital banking in innovation, security, and customer–
Next–Level Growth, Built on
India—leading the first design. In fiscal 2025, we
Trust and Technology
introduced industry–first features like
payments space with
in–app mobile OTP—enhancing fraud As we look ahead, the next phase
a 33% UPI market protection while eliminating reliance of our journey will be defined by
share, 15 million on telecom networks. Our new deeper customer connections, sharper
credit cards, and a Safety Centre on the Axis ‘open’ app execution, and smarter engagement.
empowers customers with granular By enhancing contactability, driving
merchant acquiring
control over their digital channels, cross–sell through co–origination
business with ~20% reinforcing trust and transparency. journeys, and strengthening our digital
terminal share. capabilities with platforms like ‘Siddhi’,
We launched My Money, a pioneering
we are building a more connected and
Our top–rated mobile
personal finance tool that allows
responsive franchise well–positioned
app, with 4.7+ ratings customers to view investments across
to move forward in our retail
on Android and brokers—another industry–first. banking journey.
New journeys like FD via UPI and
iOS, is the gateway
enhancements to neo for Corporates Warm regards,
to a seamless,
and neo for Businesses are redefining
Munish Sharda
secure, and smart digital experiences for individuals and
Executive Director
banking experience. enterprises alike. We continue to build
(Retail Liabilities, Branch Banking,
long–term competitive advantage
Bharat Banking, Commercial
with investment in technology and
Banking Group, and Retail Portfolio
analytics with some cutting–edge
Management Group)
use case in Gen AI and Financial
Crime intelligence. Arjun Chowdhry
Our co–branded partnerships, include We are building a resilient, industrial– Group Executive
the Flipkart Axis Bank Credit Card grade tech backbone through our (Affluent Banking, Retail Lending,
with ~4 million cards. Salesforce journey’s, standardizing Cards & Payments)
40+ capabilities across 20+ retail
Our merchant acquiring business
lending products. This is powering a
remains a market leader with ~20%
pioneering end–to–end omnichannel
terminal share. In UPI, we’ve cemented
model, setting the stage for scalable,
our leadership with a 33% market
sustainable growth ahead.
share as Payer PSP, maintaining a
leading position since August 2024. The growing adoption of our ‘Siddhi’
Strategic partnerships with fintechs App, along with intuitive cross–sell
and tech giants have fuelled this journeys and intelligent nudges, made
growth, alongside innovations like doing business smoother and smarter
Credit on UPI and UPI Circle. for both customers and employees.
Backed by a resilient tech stack, Our efforts have not gone unnoticed–
real–time decisioning, and among the Axis Bank was named Best Digital
lowest decline rates, we are not just Bank (Private) by Financial Express,
participating in the digital payments a testament to our leadership in
revolution—we are shaping it. digital excellence.
95
Business performance review
BUSINESS SEGMENT PERFORMANCE — RETAIL BANKING
Promoting open, accessible,
and inclusive banking
Powered by our deep
customer engagement,
continued digital
expansion, and a sharper
premiumisation strategy,
our Retail Banking segment
delivered resilient growth
across deposits, lending, and
payments during the year,
reinforcing our position as a
trusted financial partner
for our customers.
Our Retail Banking segment aims Retail Deposits
to promote accessibility and a
seamless banking experience. Our retail deposits strategy, driven by
Material Issues Linkage With a robust branch network, our customer–centricity, resulted in
digital–first solutions, and 10% y–o–y growth in Total Deposits
M1 M2 M6
customer–centric products, we MEB. The CASA ratio remained
M7 M9 have expanded our reach across strong at 41%, reflecting stable,
urban, semi–urban, and rural India, low–cost deposits.
thus driving meaningful progress
Capital Linkage towards financial inclusion. We have improved the granularisation
Our focus on premiumisation, in our deposit book, which positively
digital transformation, and impacts the quality of LCR deposits.
strategic partnerships has helped Consequently, improving the outflow
us drive strong performance across ratio by 340 bps over the last 3 years.
SDGs Impacted
deposits, lending, payments, and The quality and strength of our deposit
wealth management. franchise continues to improve.
Our acquisition engine, expansion
plans, product launches, salary credits,
96
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Business segment performance – Retail banking
and Burgundy AUMs remain healthy. virtual masterclasses further Total term deposits grew 14% y–o–y
We advanced premiumisation with strengthened corporate engagement. in fiscal 2025, driven by seamless
targeted offerings such as the ARISE digital journeys such as FD booking
Savings Account New to Bank (NTB)
savings account for women, which via WhatsApp, while the ease of
deposits up 13% y–o–y and granular
caters to diverse financial goals– onboarding, better compliance, and
balances per account up 17% y–o–y.
from ensuring the family’s financial security reinforced customer trust.
The Bank has made focused
security to supporting entrepreneurial
interventions to ensure better The Bank remains committed to
ambitions. The Doctors Banking
engagements with its salaried premiumisation, digital innovation, and
Program aimed to meet healthcare
customers and continue to see healthy delivering exceptional value across all
professionals’ unique needs while
trends 18% y–o–y growth in Salary customer segments.
enhancing cross–selling opportunities.
Uploads in the NTB Salary book
We enhanced the customer experience and 38% y–o–y growth in Premium
14
with a Lean Savings Onboarding acquisitions in NTB Salary book in %
journey and early adoption of UIDAI’s fiscal 2025.
Growth of term
facial recognition KYC, making
neo platforms along with customised deposits in
account activation simple and easy. fiscal 2025
solutions across liquidity management,
The upgraded Salary Suvidha enabled (y–o–y)
payments and collections continue
effortless digital onboarding and
to drive higher transaction banking
reimbursements. Strategic brand
flows leading to better current
partnerships and
account balances.
Retail Lending
KEY RETAIL LENDING PRODUCTS
Deeply connected with our GPS
strategy, our retail lending franchise
Overdraft against
aims to consistently deliver Home loans
salary
high–risk–adjusted returns.
Over the last year, we have driven
Commercial
volumes while improving profit Personal loans
equipment loans
metrics and leveraging data–driven
insights to optimise our portfolio,
enhance efficiency, and seize new Overdraft against Lease rent
opportunities to strengthen our FDs discounting
competitive position in the market.
Commercial Affordable
vehicle loans housing loans
Supply chain Loan against
finance securities
Loan against Vehicle loans
property
Education loans Credit cards
97
Business performance review
Progress across Five Pillars
Digital-first, Always
» We have seen increased coverage of digital loans in our high growth businesses
and have launched a best–in–class Digital Home Loan journey.
» From Key Fact Statement documents to end–to–end digitisation roadmaps,
our goal is clear: to deliver a frictionless, future–ready lending experience.
Smart Distribution, Deeper Penetration
» We have designed lending strategies tailored to the potential of each market segmen t,
fully leveraging the expansive and optimised branch network.
» Bharat Banking continues to penetrate rural and semi–urban markets while buildin g
scalable partnerships with fintechs, dealers, DSAs, and OEMs.
Sales with Insight, Powered by Data
» Our flagship app, ‘Siddhi’, is transforming frontline productivity — from 360°
customer views and AI–led recommendations to portfolio KPIs and coaching tools.
» Teams across regions are already seeing improved outcomes and stronger
performance metrics.
‘One Axis’ Approach: From Product to Customer
» Integrating lending into ecosystems such as property, education, and health, an d
collaborating across Axis group entities, we are emerging as the preferred bankin g
partner throughout the customer lifecycle.
» Our ETB–led strategies are further increasing stickiness and deepening wallet share.
Risk–ready and Resilient
» We are embedding governance and control at every stage — from credit and operation s
to business lines.
» With real–time risk monitoring, proactive fraud prevention, and risk–based pricing, ou r
approach ensures resilience, compliance, and long–term value creation.
Retail lending is a primary growth driver, and we are strategically positioned
D
to capitalise on emerging market trends given our extensive network, 6,229 billion
comprehensive product propositions, strong brand, and robust processes.
Retail advances book
We will continue to invest in the business to optimise our offering,
strengthen the risk framework, drive deeper market penetration, and 7% y–o–y
enhance customer experience.
98
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Business segment performance – Retail banking
Credit Cards 4 million active cards, signifying
customer engagement and growing ~15
The Bank continued strengthening its market adoption. million
cards and payments business, expanding Total credit cards in force
its portfolio through strong organic Innovation remained at the forefront with
growth and successfully integrating the launch of Credit Cards on UPI (RuPay) ~14
Citibank’s high–value consumer portfolio. for instant digital transactions. %
The Bank’s co–branded Flipkart Axis This significantly boosted Market share of cards in
Bank Credit Card reached a remarkable month–on–month spending, force
accelerating digital adoption and
enhancing customer convenience. ₹2,266
billion
The Bank ranks at 2nd position in the Highest–ever Annual Card
merchant acquisition space with a ~20% Spends
terminal market share and ~17% industry
throughput share. The year saw the
~20
introduction of innovative solutions %
like NFC Soundbox, UniPG for online Merchant Acquiring
payments, neo for Merchants app, Terminal Market Share
streamlining digital payment acceptance
and driving business growth for merchants.
Forex Cards & We have implemented NSDL PAN
validations, and the RBI–integrated
Remittances USD–INR self–transfers up to
Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS)
$30,000
monitoring project is in progress.
We continue strengthening our
cross–border banking offerings In outward remittances, the launch supported on the Remit Money
through a Forex Cards and Remittance of digital GIFT City transfers, online portal
Services suite, delivering seamless, partnerships with fintech and online
secure, and convenient experiences brokers, and the rise in digitally 64
across digital and branch channels. processed transactions from 45% to %
Anchored in our digital–first strategy, 64% were key milestones. Regulatory Outward remittance
we introduced innovative features readiness remained central, with digitisation
such as automated reloads, bulk proactive implementation of PAN from 45% y–o–y
corporate recharging, and personalised validations, LRS monitoring, and
customer discounts, resulting in over compliance with revised LRS limits Digital outward remittances
90% digital issuance. as per the Union Budget 2025–26. to Gift City enabled, thus
requiring no visits to branch
Forex cards curated offerings were
introduced for travellers across
Southeast Asia and the Middle East, $5.4
billion
with a sharper focus on student,
Retail forex volume, with
business, and leisure travel segments.
4 lakhs active customers
In remittances, the Bank enabled same–
day credit (T–day) for inward transfers
90
and enhanced processing by expanding %+
STP limits from ₹15 lakhs to ₹25 lakhs Fresh Digital Issuances of
and increasing the number of purpose Forex Cards
codes from 5 to 41 to facilitate quicker,
paperless settlements.
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
99
Business performance review
Digital Currency (CBDC)
The Bank has been a pioneer in driving We secured this top private bank spot
adoption of the Central Bank Digital 3 times in a row. We were also one
Currency (CBDC), becoming the of the few banks invited to represent
only bank to roll out Dynamic QR RBI Pavilion for CBDC during Maha
based non–50paise handling. Kumbh 2025, Global Fintech Festival
This was a game changer and 2024, and IITF Trade Fair 2024 at the
motivated our CBDC users to use the Bharat Mandapam, New Delhi.
App for their day to day transactions.
We were One of the few banks to
launch Entity programmable CBDC use
cases and User Level programmability
6.4
lakhs
in collaboration with RBI & NPCI.
These initiatives underscore our CBDC customer base, among
commitment to financial inclusion, the highest active customers
secure digital innovation, and
transparent value delivery.
~18,500
On an average we managed 18,500
Daily average transactions
transactions daily and also hold the
record of the single day highest
CBDC transactions of 3.2 lakhs. ~45,000
We earned our place as the
CBDC Merchants onboarded
top private bank to credit
maximum number of beneficiaries
during the Odisha government’s
Subhadra scheme.
Digital Initiatives
We actively working to digitise our enhanced customer experiences by and witnessed huge adoption by
journeys to provide best in class customer offering seamless access to card features, Axis Bank credit cardholders.
experience. Last year, we went live with rewards, and spending insights.
Through initiatives like dil se open
the digital journey for Home loans, digitise
Further, to aid seamless customer celebrations, customers enjoyed up
the key fact statement document, and
experience; 86% of the cards portfolio to 25% discount on categories such
seeing increasing digital coverage in auto,
requests are handled via the Axis as lifestyle, travel, dining, electronics
and personal loans. We have a roadmap to
Bank mobile banking app, ‘open’. mobile and consumer durables. The
digitise customer journey across all high
This includes Upgrades, Credit limit bank also launched Travel fest to
growth products in the coming future.
enhancements, Instant Loans and further enhance customer experience
The Axis Mobile Banking App ‘open’, EMIs, among other services. by catering to seasonal needs.
which has a 4.7 rating on the Google We recently rolled out
Play Store with over 3 million reviews, industry–leading capabilities like
continued to be a key driver of customer ‘Pay With Rewards’. To facilitate
~80
engagement, with over 1 million daily higher card engagement, %
visits. Digital innovations like Digital we launched hyper personalised Of customers’ Digital
Unboxing, with an ~80% activation ‘spend and get’ offers which had Activation done via Digital
rate, and the Benefits Dashboard, which targeted offerings basis each Unboxing
attracted 2.7 million monthly views, customer’s past spend behaviour
100
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Business segment performance – Retail banking
UPI & Strategic Partnerships
The Bank continues to expand its UPI We work closely with PhonePe,
ecosystem and strengthen strategic Google Pay, Amazon, and emerging
partnerships, leveraging technology digital players to increase UPI
to drive seamless digital transactions. adoption. The year saw the launch
By deepening collaborations across of Credit on UPI for issuance and
UPI, acquiring, and issuance, we are acquisition, further accelerating
improving our market presence and organic UPI transaction growth.
building first–mover advantages in
digital payments.
~183
With the broadest range of crores
co–branded cards, we have UPI IDs registered as on
solidified our position through March 31, 2025
partnerships across e–commerce,
airlines, fintech, telecom, fuel, retail,
33.3
and consumer durables, offering %
differentiated solutions for diverse UPI Market Share
customer segments. (Payer PSP)
Wealth Management
In less than a decade, the Bank’s Backed by our award–winning digital Awards Won
Wealth Management franchise has innovations, including the Axis Mobile » ‘India’s Best for Next–Gen’ at the
emerged as the third largest in India, App ‘open’ (rated 4.8 on Apple App Euromoney Global Private Banking
leveraging a full–stack product Store and 4.7 on Google Play Store),
Awards 2025
suite, extensive distribution, and clients enjoy a seamless, omnichannel
integration of Citibank’s wealth wealth experience, efficiently investing » Best CRM for Private Banking
business. Our commitment to growing across asset classes like mutual funds, in Asia – PWM WealthTech
and preserving client wealth is at the insurance, NPS, and sovereign bonds. Awards 2025
heart of our holistic approach that
seamlessly integrates investments, Driving Digital Transformation
banking, and advisory services. & Innovation 18.5
+ lakhs
‘One Axis’ unites expertise across
With an upgraded wealth management
Axis Securities, Axis AMC, Axis Clients and families
platform integrated into our core
Capital, Axis Finance, and Axis Trustee served through Wealth
banking system, we continue to invest
Services, enabling us to cater to every Management platform
in AI–driven insights, automation, and
financial need.
risk management, enhancing client
experience and operational efficiency. ₹7.4 trillion#
People, Technology & Service
As the industry evolves with growing
Financial assets managed,
Our dedicated Burgundy Private competition from fintechs and
with a strong Products per
Partners, Relationship Managers, independent advisors, we remain
Family (PPF) ratio
and Wealth Specialists provide positioned to lead with scalability,
personalised, high–touch advisory superior digital capabilities, and
services across 44 cities and cost–efficient acquisition channels.
#Including advisory assets under management/
350+ branches.
promoter holding but excluding loans
101
Business performance review
MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT – doubling Assets Under Custody to ₹10 lakh
WHOLESALE BANKING crore added further momentum.
The Bank sees the MSME as a
transformative force for the next decade—
A trusted banking partner
much like Retail was in the last. This is a
granular, sectorally diverse, and highly
profitable business that we are deeply
of corporate India
committed to scaling. With a strong
foundation, prudent risk management, and
a clear strategic vision, we are confiden t
that our MSME franchise will continue to
be a key element of our growth story.
Our Wholesale banking business continues
to thrive, offering us deeper engagement
opportunities through deposits, fee–based
products, and cross–sell. We are making
steady progress in building a profitable
and sustainable Corporate Bank. Our
disciplined approach to underwriting
and pricing ensures that we selectively
pursue opportunities that align with our
Rajiv Anand
risk appetite, while continuing to grow our
Deputy Managing Director portfolio responsibly.
In fiscal 2025, our corporate loan book
grew by 8% y–o–y, with mid– corporate
lending delivering a healthy 10% growth.
Overseas, 91% of our standard corporate
Fiscal 2025 stood out for our Wholesale ‘One Axis’ approach, delivering end-to- loan book remains India–linked, and 96%
Banking franchise—one that showcased our end solutions to Large Corporates & is rated A and above—underscoring the
ability to lead with client centric innovation Conglomerates, Mid & Small Enterprises, quality of our exposures.
and scale with purpose. Our Wholesale MNCs, New Economy group, Infra & Real
Looking ahead to fiscal 2026, the
Banking franchise is now more agile, digital, estate, and Institutional & Government
Wholesale banking franchise Axis
and future–ready than ever before. entities. The focus remained on enhancing
Bank is poised to accelerate its journey
relationship RAROC across these
At the heart of our Wholesale Banking through strong asset growth, flow based
segments. Mid corporate including Small
success lies a strong, relationship–led liabilities, accelerated digital transaction
Business Banking and SME—expanded
franchise—one that thrives on deep client activations, operational efficiency, and
~14% y-o-y, now representing ~23% of
engagement and seamless collaboration strategic partnerships—continuing to shape
the total loan book, a remarkable rise of
across the ‘One Axis’ ecosystem. Over the future of Axis Bank with purpose
~740 basis points over four years. The
the last 7 years, we’ve transformed into a and precision.
SME segment stood out for its robustness,
true ‘one–stop shop’ for the banking needs
with Gross NPA at just 0.77%, Net NPA a t
of Indian corporates, offering integrated Dominant market share in
0.25%, and 88% PSL compliance.
solutions that span the entire business Transaction Banking
lifecycle—from growth–stage enterprises to The Bank also deepened its footprint in the
Our customized solutions in payments
large conglomerates. start-up ecosystem, forging partnerships
and cash management continue to drive
with unicorns and Series A+ ventures.
This evolution is more than structural— strong transaction flows and improve
Tailored offerings like the Axis Start-
it’s cultural. It reflects our commitment current account balances as evident by
Up Card and neo APIs showcased its
to execution excellence, powered by the 24% y–o–y increase in new current
commitment to innovation. As a leader
collaboration, innovation, and a unified account acquisitions in fiscal 2025. We
in domestic payment gateways, the Bank
vision to deliver value at every touchpoint. now command 7% market share in GST
expanded into cross-border payments,
payments, 8.8% in RTGS by value, ~30%
while the Real Economy Group focused on
Scaling up and Strengthening our y–o–y growth in NEFT by value, 23% in
Infrastructure & Real Estate doubled its
IMPS (by volume), and 11% in foreign
Wholesale Banking Franchise business, contributing 50% to syndication
LCs. Our merchant acquiring business
Axis Bank’s leadership in Wholesale volumes and advancing Green financing .
is also seeing strong growth in current
Banking was further cemented through Key milestones including clinching India’s
account balances.
its strategic engagement and integrated first Blue Loan of $500 million from IFC and
102
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Message from the management – Wholesale banking
Leading the Way in the Corporate manufacturers diversify market risk and this a relationship–led franchise and redefined
Bond Market pioneering transaction marks a bold step in Transaction Banking with industry–first
building India’s aviation finance ecosystem innovations and built a solution–led ,
We remain exceptionally well–positioned
and reinforces our leadership in wholesale banking ecosystem.
to capitalize on the momentum of India’s
cross–border innovation. Through ‘One Axis’, we served clients
vibrant corporate bond market. Axis Bank
across the capital structure, becoming the
continue to be recognised as the No. 1 We further accelerated our innovation
Transaction Bank of Choice.
arranger for rupee–denominated bonds, agenda and deepened our commitment to
as per the Bloomberg league table—an empowering businesses across segments. We’ve consistently led with an industry–
achievement that reflects our deep market Our partnership with Marg ERP is first mindset–executing India’s first
expertise and trusted relationships. Our transforming SME banking by integrating domestic trade transaction on a
leadership was further reinforced by top financial services directly into business GOI–backed blockchain platform,
honours at the 2024 Best of the Sell–side workflows–enhancing agility, efficiency, pioneering SOFR–linked trade deals,
survey by Asset Benchmark Research, and decision–making for our clients. We being India’s first bank on aircraft financing
where we were named Top Arranger also expanded our global footprint with solutions, and many more. This reflects our
– Investors’ Choice for Primary Issues further enhancement of our Internationa l commitment to innovation and our drive to
and Top Sell–side Firm in the Secondary Banking Unit at GIFT City, offering a set new benchmarks in wholesale banking.
Market. These accolades underscore our comprehensive suite of digital–first services Initiatives like Project neo are steadily
commitment to delivering excellence across tailored for NRIs and global customers. shaping our vision of a leading digital
the full spectrum of debt capital markets. corporate bank.
In our continued push for digital leadership ,
we launched India’s first UPI–enabled Our presence at GIFT City has grown
Digital Innovation with Project neo
Android Cash Recycler and introduced stronger, and we’ve deepened our
Project neo is redefining our digital Bharat Connect for Business to streamline engagement with government entities
engagement with corporate clients. With a working capital and cash flow management and financial sponsors. These efforts have
client–centric design, neo offers a seamless, for enterprises. Our collaboration with contributed to steady growth in liabilities
multi–product, multi–channel experience. Next Bharat Ventures is unlocking access to and fee income.
In this fiscal, we’ve seen 1.3x growth in AP I working capital for impact–driven startups
India’s cyclical recovery is gaining
integrations, 1.6x growth in throughput , and MSMEs, especially in underserved Tier
momentum, with real GDP growth
and 1.7x growth in linked current account 2 and Tier 3 regions—fostering inclusive
rebounding to 6.5% y–o–y in 2025, as
balances. neo for Business, our mobile– economic growth.
several headwinds begin to ease. However,
first platform for SMEs, has onboarded
Through our New Economy Group, we global tariff tensions and China’s excess
~1.8 lakh customers since its launch in
launched a Corporate Credit Card Suite capacity risks are clouding the outlook
September 2023. neo for Corporates is
designed specifically for startups, offering for fiscal 2026, delaying private capex
scaling rapidly having mobile app available
flexible, value–rich tools to support their recovery—even as corporate balance
for payment authorisation, with onboarding
evolving needs. sheets remain strong and well–positioned
underway for 2 lakhs+ clients.
for future growth. We’ve undertaken a
To further empower the merchant
Our commitment to innovation and client– comprehensive bottom–up analysis of
community, we introduced neo for
centricity has been widely recognised, with tariff impacts across industries and our
Merchants in partnership with VISA
Project neo earning multiple accolades. portfolio. While the current impact appears
and a fintech company–a mobile–first ,
These include the Best Product Innovation negligible, we remain cautious given the
all–in–one platform that simplifies
awards for the neo API Developer Portal, evolving global landscape. Despite these
payments, reporting, and service requests .
neo for Business, and neo for Corporates. uncertainties, our strong balance sheet ,
Additionally, we enabled seamless
These honours underscore the strength of prudent risk management, and focus on
GST payments via our Commercial
our digital strategy and reaffirm our focus relationship RAROC position us well to
Card platform, helping clients optimize
on delivering cutting–edge, value–driven navigate challenges and capture profitable
working capital while enhancing
solutions to our clients across segments. growth opportunities in future.
operational efficiency.
This journey has been one of purpose
Driving Innovation and
A Chapter Closes, A Legacy Continues and transformation. As I move on, I do so
Expanding Impact
As I prepare to retire at the end of my term knowing that Axis stands stronger, bolder,
Axis Bank made history as the first Indian
in August 2025, I reflect with immense and more future–ready than ever.
bank to execute an aircraft financing dea l
pride on my 16–year journey with Axis
through its International Banking Unit at Warm regards,
Group—nearly 8 of those within Wholesale
GIFT City—funding 34 training aircraft for
Banking. When I took the helm in 2018, Rajiv Anand
Air India’s pilot academy. India is becoming
the banking industry was navigating the
a hotspot for aircraft manufacturers Deputy Managing Director
turbulence of the corporate led NPA
due to its growing aviation market and
cycle. Today, we stand transformed being
shifting global dynamics, thereby helping
evolved from an asset–focused model to
103
Business performance review
BUSINESS SEGMENT PERFORMANCE – WHOLESALE BANKING
Ensuring every enterprise
reaches its potential
Our Wholesale Banking
segment supports India’s
thriving yet evolving
enterprise ecosystem
with a solutions–driven
approach. Rooted in our
belief in openness and
collaboration, we remain
dedicated to assisting
8
businesses at every stage %
Corporate advances
of their growth journey —
Our Wholesale Banking franchise growth (y–o–y)
whether expanding into
serves diverse clients & their
new markets, transitioning needs across Conglomerates, 9 %
to sustainable models, Large Corporates, Mid–sized Corporate and Commercial
companies, Infrastructure &
navigating complex Banking fee income growth
Real Estate Entities, Public
(y–o–y)
challenges or supporting
Sector Undertakings (PSUs),
mature businesses stay Government Institutions, 6
%
resilient. Financial Intermediaries, Multi–
Current account deposits
National Companies & New
growth (y–o–y)
Economy entities.
Material Issues Linkage 90
Through our integrated ‘One %
M1 M2 M6 Axis’ approach, we offer a
Share of Corporate Advances
comprehensive suite of solutions
M7 to clients rated A– and above
spanning Credit, Trade, Capital
markets, Advisory, Treasury, Forex ~1.8
X
Capital Linkage & Derivatives, Transaction Banking
and Digital services. Focusing Focus segment book* growth
on long–term relationships and vs overall book growth (y–o–y)
sector–specific expertise, we
740
SDGs Impacted continue to position ourselves bps
as a Trusted Banking partner Rise in focus segment
committed to enabling growth, contribution mix (from 15.3%
resilience, and transformation to 22.7%) over the last 4 years
across the enterprise landscape.
*SBB+SME+Mid Corporate
104
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Business segment performance – Wholesale banking
Strengthening Wholesale Banking in Fiscal 2025
Building Capabilities and Financing the Future banking reach through GIFT City. We
Empowering Bankers with Purpose partnered with Invest India to attract
investments into high–growth sectors,
In fiscal 2025, we launched a We deepened our commitment to
opening new pathways for national
comprehensive learning and sustainable finance, securing India’s
transformation. As the first bank to
development program to equip our first–ever Blue Loan of $500 million
integrate with the government’s Upyog
Relationship Managers with sharper from the International Finance
platform, we have empowered over 60
insights, deeper customer empathy, Corporation (IFC). This milestone
local bodies with smart citizen services,
and enhanced product knowledge. supports the financing of both green
ranging from QR–based tax collection
Initiatives such as the Credit Analyst and blue projects, encompassing
to drone–enabled disaster response.
Program, 1,000 Change Leaders, and initiatives from renewable energy
Selling with Passion, supported by to sea and freshwater conservation.
Digital & AI–Led Transformation
Coursera–based learning, ensured We enabled ₹19,500 crores in
that our teams were not only trained green funding, covering EV mobility, We launched our e–commerce Centre
but also transformed into dil se round–the–clock power, and of Excellence (CoE) to tap into India’s
open bankers. sustainable infrastructure. booming $400 billion D2C market in
collaboration with fintech aggregators.
Expanding Global Horizons Government & Ecosystem We also advanced the use of Gen
through Partnerships Engagement AI, driving smarter decision–making,
sharper customer insights, and greater
We forged a strategic partnership We are a committed partner in the
operational efficiency of the Wholesale
with Crédit Agricole Corporate & nation’s growth journey. In fiscal 2025,
Banking ecosystem.
Investment Bank, France to unlock we co–hosted the Defence Conclave
new opportunities for clients 2025, with the theme, ‘Atmanirbhar
operating across in India and Europe Defence – Empowering the Defence
to strengthen our capabilities in FI Ecosystem’, to bolster the indigenous
trade, renewable energy underwriting, defence manufacturing in collaboration
aircraft financing, and syndication, with the government, MSMEs and
ensuring our clients could access our industry leaders. Aligned with the
global expertise delivered through ‘Make in India’ and ‘Invest in India’
a trusted local partner. missions, we expanded our global
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
₹10 $500
lakh crores million
Doubled Assets under Custody India’s first–ever Blue Loan
(AUC) powered by the UTI secured by the Bank from IFC
Mutual Fund mandate in fiscal 2025
₹19,500
million
Green funding enabled during
the year by the Bank
105
Business performance review
Commercial Banking The advanced digital renewal journey
KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF
streamlined loan servicing. Our
Group (CBG) FISCAL 2025
relationship managers, equipped
with real–time data through
CBG is a critical and vital segment of
advanced digital tools, played a ₹1.19
the Bank, contributing significantly to lakh crores
key role in delivering proactive,
business growth and profitability.
SME Advances
personalised service.
As per the Bank’s motto, ‘Har raah
(14% y–o–y growth)
dil se open’ – Our commitment to In fiscal 2025, the CBG segment made
open every window of opportunity,” substantial contributions to Priority
8.3
CBG caters to the evolving needs of Sector Lending (PSL), aligning its %
MSMEs across the entire customer efforts with national developmental Market share as % of overall
value chain. This includes loans, goals while strengthening its liability Industry MSME credit
trade/forex, liabilities, and fee–based portfolio to enhance stability
products, providing tailored banking and profitability.
71
solutions for business owners and %
The Bank’s PSL engine generates
employees and ensuring seamless
SME loans rated SME3
stable and high–quality PSL for
financial support at every stage of
or better
the bank.
their journey.
CBG’s vast network of 155 dedicated 88
%
MSME centres enables the delivery
of contextual, relationship–driven SME loans are PSL
banking, empowering businesses compliant
with the tools and insights they
need to operate more efficiently and
grow confidently.
CBG’s Digital-first approach and
robust credit delivery framework have
enhanced reach and engagement
during fiscal 2025.
Medium Enterprises In fiscal 2025, the ME franchise
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
delivered strong growth, led by
Group (MEG)
targeted financial solutions, agile
servicing, and deep relationship 18
Medium–sized enterprises are the %
engagement. Our bankers work closely
backbone of India’s economic growth
Loan book growth (y–o–y)
with enterprises to help them realise
across various sectors, including trade,
their ambitions and provide them with
wholesale, retail, food processing,
insightful advice, seamless onboarding, 56
textiles, and steel. Our Medium %
and digital–first support. This year’s
Enterprises (ME) franchise continues
Customers digitally
momentum was driven by a focus
to play a critical role in enabling
onboarded
on risk–calibrated lending, proactive
these businesses to scale efficiently,
digital adoption, and our commitment
expand sustainably, and thrive in a
to making banking more accessible,
dynamic environment.
relevant, and responsive to the needs
of growing enterprises.
106
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Business segment performance – Wholesale banking
Treasury
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
The Bank continued to offer a broad
range of treasury and market solutions , A.TReDS 16
%
including forex, derivatives, debt
capital markets, and loan syndication . Partnership to streamline Of Burgundy private
Through neo for Markets, Treasury Sales MSME payments relationships onboarded from
advanced its role as a trusted provider of 17 Wholesale Banking clientele
structured risk management solutions,
>50
while our trading desks continued to MoUs signed with state %
serve as active market makers. The governments, including Of Axis Trustee’s new business
Loan Syndication desk facilitated credit Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, is originated through the Bank’s
distribution and portfolio diversification Rajasthan, Gujarat, and clients reflecting strategic cross
across domestic and international Maharashtra, depending on sell approach
markets. A key milestone was the early engagement with government
transition to the Murex Treasury System 1,092
in December 2024, which enhanced risk 60
management, efficiency, governance, and Of new salary relationships
client experience. Mandates executed by Axis originated from WBCG clients,
Capital were with the Bank thus enhancing value for
#1
customers, thus providing corporate clients
end–to–end financial solutions
Ranking in Bloomberg’s DCM
League table for calendar year
2024, reinforcing the Bank’s
leadership in debt capital markets
Charting the Road Ahead
‘One Axis’ OUR GROWTH PILLARS FOR FISCAL 2026
The ‘One Axis’ initiative represents our
Expanding Access
commitment to providing a seamless,
integrated banking experience through We are expanding our footprint in India’s thriving startup ecosystem,
our diverse business segments and offering entrepreneurs seamless access to banking, advisory, and capital
subsidiaries. Through this integrated through our hub-and-spoke model. Our efforts include contributing in the
platform, we offer a comprehensive evolving fund ecosystem in collaboration with VCs, incubators, and policy
suite of services, including lending, platforms to support early and growth-stage ventures.
wealth management, insurance,
In line with our sustainability goals, we’ve introduced green and blue
investment banking, and transaction
loans to finance eco-friendly and marine-focused projects, reinforcing our
banking. By leveraging synergies
commitment to responsible banking and ESG-aligned growth.
across our ecosystem, we ensure
comprehensive financial solutions
tailored to our customers’ needs. Accelerating Digital Innovation
neo platform will drive innovative solutions for SaaS, AI, and fintech,
focusing on real–time FX, API–led payments, and high–impact non–paytech
segments, such as Insurtech, Wealthtech, and Lendingtech.
Delivering Seamlessly with ‘One Axis’
Continue to deliver a seamless, connected experience through ‘One Axis’,
offering a comprehensive range of services from capital raising to investment,
estate planning, and employee banking through a single, customer–
first relationship.
107
Business performance review
‘ONE AXIS’ IN ACTION S1
One platform, infinite
financial journeys
The ‘One Axis’ Ecosystem brings together the full spectrum of Axis Bank’s financial
services spanning asset management, retail brokerage, insurance, consumer lending,
fintech, investment banking, and more through a seamless, integrated platform. By
uniting the strengths of its subsidiaries and business verticals, the Bank is able to
offer comprehensive, end–to–end solutions to meet the evolving needs of individuals,
businesses, and institutions.
‘One Axis’ Group
Asset Invest Consumer Retail Fintech TReDS
Management Banking & focused Brokerage Trustee Platform Platform Insurance
Inst. Equities NBFC
One of Leadership AAA rated 3rd largest Amongst One of the Leading 4th largest
the fastest– position in NBFC with bank–led the leading major fintech player private
growing ECM deals diversified brokerage trustees players on TReDs insurance
MF player segment product firm in India in India platform company
offerings
75% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 67% 19.02%1
(Co–promoter),
Accounting
Associate
47%2
Note: 1) Position as on March 31, 2025 and including stakes owned by Axis Capital and Axis Securities
2) Effective stake held by Axis Group in step down subsidiary
108
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
‘One Axis’ in action
Power of One
At the heart of Axis Bank’s digital strategy lies a unified, future–ready platform that enables us to serve customers
seamlessly across channels. With ‘One Axis’, we are transforming how financial services are accessed–integrating AI,
advanced analytics, and modular tech architecture to personalise experiences, optimise operations and offer a wide
array of solutions under one digital umbrella.
Wholesale Banking Commercial Banking Retail Banking
Universal Banking
1
2 3 4
Investment Banking Commercial Transaction Retail
/Capital Markets Banking Banking Banking
Cash Management Savings accounts
Debt Capital Working Capital/
Services (Collection/ and other products
Markets (DCM) Term Loans
Payment) and services
Wealth Management–
Equity Capital Letter of Credit
Current Accounts Burgundy/
Markets (ECM) Bank Guarantee
Burgundy Private
Bill Invoice Discounting,
M&A & Advisory Custodial Services
Supply Chain financing
Forex & Correspondent
Derivative Solutions Wholesale Deposits Banking Services
Reliable Partner throughout the Customer Life Cycle
109
Business performance review
Axis Finance, a leading NBFC, delivers a wide range of lending solutions to wholesale, MSME, and retail clients
across varied sectors and geographies. With a remarkable 31% CAGR in AUF from fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2025, we
remain committed to strong operational discipline and prudent risk management, enabled by advanced technology.
Our offering encompasses retail lending, MSME finance, and credit solutions for mid– and large–sized corporates.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOCUS AREAS FOR PERFORMANCE IN
OF FISCAL 2025 FISCAL 2026 FISCAL 2025
Retail Segment » Expand focus on small 28
%
Achieved 28% y–o–y and micro enterprises to
growth on book assets enhance portfolio granularity Growth in Retail
while maintaining resilient and stability Loan book*
asset quality
» Grow distribution in
11
concentric circles to tap the %
Wholesale Segment
immense potential of rural Growth in Wholesale
Recorded an 11% y–o–y
and semi–urban markets Loan book*
growth, supported by a high–
quality portfolio and industry– » Drive customer
leading asset quality metrics acquisition through direct 30
%
origination, leveraging
Growth in MSME
MSME Segment technology to optimise
Loan book*
Delivered a 30% y–o–y operational efficiency
growth, with a well–
11
diversified portfolio including %
theme–based lending to
Growth in PAT, reaching
healthcare, hospitality,
₹676 crores
education, automobile and
retail sectors
14.5
%
Expanded Distribution Return on Equity (RoE)
Present across 225+ locations
and 59 branches.
20.90
%
Digital Innovation Capital to Risk Weighted
Continued to invest Assets Ratio (CRAR)
in improving digital
capabilities, thus enhancing *y–o–y growth
customer experience and
operational efficiency Awards & Recognition
Funding Diversification
Successfully completed
maiden External Commercial
Borrowing (ECB), taking a
strategic step towards our
borrowing profile
110
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
‘One Axis’ in action
Axis Capital continues to lead in India’s investment banking landscape and institutional equity services, offering
tailored solutions backed by 40+ years of proven expertise and excellence. Consistently recognised as a top–tier
advisor and securities firm, our strength lies in our execution precision, client–centricity, and strong leadership.
In fiscal 2025, our Investment Banking and Institutional Equities divisions delivered record topline performance,
successfully executing 61 transactions across Equity Capital Markets (ECM) and non–ECM segments.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOCUS AREAS FOR PERFORMANCE IN
OF FISCAL 2025 FISCAL 2026 FISCAL 2025
» Executed marquee equity » Focus on PE fundraises and 48.6
%
transactions, including the InvITs/REITs to drive growth
Growth in Investment
Vodafone Idea FPO, IPOs in the non–ECM segment
Banking revenue
of Bajaj Housing, Waaree
» Optimise deal selection by
Energies, IGI, and the
prioritising transactions with
Motherson Sumi QIP 61
a high closure probability
» Recognised as the Most and strategic relevance Investment Banking deals
Active Technology Banker, executed
» Deepen relationships with
securing landmark deals
Domestic Institutional
across consumer tech, #2
Investors (DII) and Foreign
enterprise tech, and
Institutional Investors (FII) to Rank by number of IPOs
fintech sectors
sustain momentum in IED
» Sustained market
» Uphold the highest ₹160.5
leadership in the InvIT/ crores
standards of compliance
REIT space, advising top– PAT
and ethics
tier financial sponsors,
such as KKR, I–Squared » Invest in technology,
and Actis advancing the AI and
automation journey
» Delivered strong growth
in Cash & Derivatives » Build a strong pool of high–
within the Institutional potential junior talent to
Equities Division (IED), develop future leaders and
Awards & Recognition
driven by an expanding ensure long–term growth
domestic client base and ‘Best ECM House’ at Finance
increased global investor Asia Awards
engagement through
‘Best Investment Bank and
strategic roadshows
Best Securities House in India’
and conferences
at Euromoney Securities
» Enhanced thought Houses Awards
leadership with a
robust pipeline of
thematic research and
a 15%+ increase in
coverage universe
111
Business performance review
Freecharge stands at the forefront of the financial services industry, offering a wide range of innovative
solutions for merchants and consumers. By combining secure, compliant, and tech–driven platforms, Freecharge
enables seamless payments, accessible credit, and other services, thus advancing financial inclusion for retail
users and businesses alike.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOCUS AREAS FOR PERFORMANCE IN
OF FISCAL 2025 FISCAL 2026 FISCAL 2025
» Expanded the lending » Continue scaling merchant 108
%
ecosystem to empower and consumer lending
customers of microfinance businesses, leveraging early y–o–y increase of
institutions (MFIs) and signs of strong growth Freecharge Payment
MSME merchants, Gateway (FPG) Gross
» Expand strategically into key
reaching 100+ locations Merchandise Value (GMV)
geographies to strengthen
» Upgraded the payment MFI and merchant
34
aggregator platform with lending operations %
advanced technology
» Secure Payment Aggregator y–o–y growth of Quick
enhancements, setting
licence to support business Response (QR) GMV
new industry standards
scale–up
» Launched innovations in
» Continuously refine the
UPI, including UPI Lite,
payment aggregator platform
UPI Global (Android), and
to strengthen Freecharge’s
Aadhaar OTP–based UPI Awards & Recognition
position as a top–tier
PIN setup, reinforcing
industry leader Economic Times Human
leadership in the
Resources (ETHR) Employee
UPI ecosystem
Experience Award, 2024
» Introduced Gold OD
Business World People HR
on UPI – a gold–backed
Excellence Award, 2024
overdraft product with
flexible repayments
options and interest
charged only on the
utilised amount
112
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
‘One Axis’ in action
Axis AMC continues to strengthen its position as one of India’s leading asset managers, recognised for its customer–centric
innovation, disciplined investment approach, and responsible product offerings. Committed to delivering superior value to
investors across segments, Axis AMC remains committed to upholding transparency, integrating technology, and offering trusted
advice to drive outcomes. fiscal 2025 was a period of significant growth and innovation for Axis AMC, marked by the successfu l
launch of new funds, an expanded passive product suite, and strategic investments in distribution capabilities and global platforms.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOCUS AREAS FOR PERFORMANCE IN
OF FISCAL 2025 FISCAL 2026 FISCAL 2025
» Raised over ₹4,200 » Continue to launch 15
%
crores through the Axis innovative products across
Consumption Fund NFO, asset classes, including y–o–y
making it the second–largest exploring opportunities Assets under management
offering in its category, under the new Specialised at ₹3,05,717 crores as on
with participation from Investment Fund (SIF) March 31, 2025
over 9,000 Mutual Fund category introduced by SEBI
Distributors (MFDs)
» Broaden distribution ₹501
across India crores
footprint by expanding
Profit after tax (PAT)
» Launched Axis Momentum branch presence in
Fund, garnering over non–metro cities
₹1,400 crores during its and strengthening 82
NFO and further expanding partnerships across wealth
Mutual fund schemes
the differentiated equity management channels
managed
fund portfolio through
» Deepen global engagement
differentiated strategy
by leveraging the GIFT
34.5
» Strengthened the passive City platform to offer %
product suite with new index differentiated offshore Gender diversity ratio
funds, including the Nifty investment opportunities (as on March 31, 2025)
Bank Index Fund, Nifty 500
Index Fund, and Nifty500
Value 50 Index Fund
» Pioneered the launch of
Sectoral Target Maturity
Funds focused on the NBFC
and Financial Services
sectors, addressing emerging
investor preferences
» Advanced global footprint
by establishing a branch in
GIFT City IFSC, unlocking
opportunities to offer global
investment products to
Indian investors
113
Business performance review
Axis Securities, a subsidiary of Axis Bank, operates as a retail brokerage that offers a wide spectrum of financial solutions through an
advisory–led model. By leveraging advanced technology and digital capabilities within the ‘One Axis’ ecosystem, Axis Securities delivers
a seamless experience across lending, investment, and wealth–creation. Through its retail broking platform, Axis Direct, the organisation
offers a comprehensive suite of solutions in equities, derivatives, mutual funds, fixed income products, and lending. With a strong focus
on innovation, service excellence, and operational efficiency, Axis Securities continue to empower customers in their financial journeys.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOCUS AREAS FOR PERFORMANCE IN
OF FISCAL 2025 FISCAL 2026 FISCAL 2025
» Launched two new Accelerate Digital Growth 45
%
mobile apps – Axis Direct
Increase digital contribution
Investor App and Axis Growth in total income
to overall business by
Direct Traders App – to (y–o–y)
leveraging the newly launched
deliver a seamless, tailored
mobile platforms and
experience for investors enhancing adoption across 38
%
and traders
customer segments
Growth in total customer
» Rolled out Trade Pro,
acquisitions
AI–Driven Predictive
an enhanced EXE
Servicing
terminal designed for
high–frequency traders Deploy AI and Big Data– 53 %
(HFTs) and professional powered bots to proactively
Of clients traded through
market participants identify customer needs, offer
the mobile app
tailored solutions, and enhance
» Introduced simplified
customer satisfaction
and faster journeys for 39
%
IPO and Mutual Fund Innovative Self–service
investments across digital Platforms Growth in profit after
platforms, enabling more tax (y–o–y)
Simplify customer reporting
informed decision–making
and support through intuitive,
by customers
self–help solutions, including
expanded service delivery
via WhatsApp and other
Awards & Recognition
conversational interfaces
Certified as a Great Place to
Strengthen Risk Work® 2024
Management and
‘Best Digital Transformation
Compliance
Award’ at the e4m CX India
Maintain a sharp focus on Awards 2024
operational risk mitigation,
adherence to compliance, and
robust information security to
safeguard customer trust
114
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
‘One Axis’ in action
Invoicemart, India’s largest Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS) platform, addresses MSME credit gaps by enabling early payment s
through a transparent digital marketplace. It connects MSME sellers with buyers, including Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs), State
PSUs, corporates, and a network of financiers, through a transparent bidding process, unlocking working capital efficiently. Since its launch ,
Invoicemart has scaled significantly, achieving a base of over 44,300 registered MSMEs, more than 2,980 buyers, and 71 financiers—th e
highest on any TReDS platform. Invoicemart has completed dual ISO certifications for Information Security (ISO 27001:2022) and Clou d
Security (ISO 27017:2015), and celebrates a milestone in diversity and inclusion. The Company has reached a remarkable 45% representatio n
of women in its workforce showcasing its dedication to creating a more inclusive and equitable work environment.
PERFORMANCE FROM JULY 2017 TO MARCH 2025
₹1,80,000 47,300 40
+ crores + lakhs+
Throughput Participants onboarded Invoices discounted
Axis Pension Fund Management (PFM) Ltd. commenced operations on October 21, 2022, with a mandate to manage National
Pension System (NPS) funds for retail subscribers, corporate NPS subscribers, and government employees under the NPS. Since
then, it has solidified its presence as one of the key Pension Fund Managers in the industry.
PERFORMANCE FROM OCTOBER 2022 TO MARCH 2025
D
8,854 3.3 4.8 303
crores % % %
AUM In AUM In subscriber base y–o–y AUM growth
Axis Trustee Services Ltd. reinforced its leadership in fiduciary and debt transactions in fiscal 2025, delivering strong performance
across a broad spectrum of mandates. As a trusted partner in REITs, InvITs, securitisation, and alternate investments, Axis Trustee
continues to drive innovation and set industry benchmarks. Our Facility Agency business experienced notable growth, especially
in multi–currency debt transactions in GIFT City. Axis Trustee also enhanced its presence in the Alternative Investment Fund (AIF)
space and led several first–of–its–kind transactions in India, including roles in aircraft leasing and Small and Medium (SM) REITs.
PERFORMANCE IN FISCAL 2025 (Y–O–Y GROWTH IN TERMS OF NUMBER OF MANDATES)
50 17 117 15
% % % %
Facility Agent Debenture Trustee Securitisation Alternate Investment Fund (AIF)
115
Business performance review
MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT – comprising of leased lines and
OPERATIONS AND TRANSFORMATION Multiprotocol Label Switching, ensuring
seamless application delivery across
domestic and international operations.
Raising the bar with
Our Cloud–first and Cloud–native
strategy has led to the creation of three
enterprise–grade landing zones and the
each success
deployment of over 150 applications
on the cloud. We have adopted
Continuous Integration/ Continuous
Delivery practices for more than 100
applications and became the first
Indian bank to receive ISO certification
for cloud security on both AWS and
Azure platforms.
Fiscal 2025, we also made significant
strides in Central Bank Digital Currency
(CBDC) initiatives. We became the first
bank in our cohort to go live with both
Android and iOS apps, surpassing key
adoption milestones with over 0.65
Subrat Mohanty
million registered customers and more
Executive Director (Banking than 6 million transactions. We are
Operations & Transformation) also the RBI’s preferred partner for the
Government–led Programmable CBDC
initiative, collaborating with various
ministries and organisations.
Dear Shareholders, Strengthening our core Driving operational excellence
To enhance operational efficiency,
Fiscal 2025 marked an important Enhancing customer experience
we launched Axis Deep Intelligence
chapter in our growth as we advanced and operational efficiency with (ADI), a GenAI–powered internal
towards becoming a stronger, more
pioneering technology chatbot now deployed over 5,500
resilient franchise. Anchored by our GPS
We remain steadfast in our branches and supporting over 100,000
strategy, we achieved sustained growth
commitment to leverage technology– employees. We are actively integrating
and profitability, while simultaneously
driven initiatives that simplify and AI/ML, automation, and data analytics
reimagining and reinforcing the
elevate the banking experience for our to improve customer engagement,
foundation of our organisation.
customers. In fiscal 2025, we continued streamline operations, and boost
In previous updates, I highlighted three to invest in building future–ready workforce productivity through
strategic priorities that continue to infrastructure by embracing continuous AI–assisted tools. Additionally, we have
shape our long–term readiness: innovation and rapid adoption of empowered departments with Co–pilot
emerging technologies. Our focus capabilities, deploying over 4,500 bots
» Strengthening and Modernising
areas included lending transformation, across 1,850+ automated processes.
our core systems and processes to
generative AI (GenAI), hyper–
navigate increasing complexity and Investing in capabilities
personalisation, digital payments, and
shifting business dynamics.
seamless cloud integration—all aimed
Empowering employees
» Developing future–focused at enhancing resilience and delivering Delivering on our customer service
capabilities that leverage superior customer experiences. promises hinges on the ability of our
technological advancements From an infrastructure perspective, employees to engage with customers
and respond to evolving we operate from two strategically in a meaningful and contextual manner.
customer expectations. located primary data centres in Our employee platform ‘Siddhi’
» Championing responsible business different seismic zones—Mumbai and provides single point access to our
practices and setting benchmarks Bengaluru—along with a near–DR data frontline staff on all products, customer
in corporate citizenship. centre in Bengaluru. These facilities engagement and service journeys.
are equipped with high–performance Today 90,000+ Bank’s employees
We have made meaningful headway wide–area network connectivity and partners utilise ‘Siddhi’ to gain
in each of these areas. real–time insights and personalised
116
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Message from the management – Operations and transformation
recommendations, thus enabling every 30 million transactions daily and in it for the long term. By fostering a
interaction to be insightful, meaningful, create meaningful insights for personal risk–first culture coupled with customer
and rewarding. ‘Siddhi’ has been built finance module live in our mobile centricity, analytics and technology,
using modern technical architecture banking application. the bank is building a robust defence
and data stack and is integrated with against fraud thereby proactively
We are live with 100+ machine
35+ systems including core banking, protecting our customers’ trust and
learning models across diverse
CRM origination systems, data lakes ensuring a safer and more secure
domains – credit risk, financial crime,
and learning systems. We use advanced financial landscape. Our award winning
marketing recommendation engine and
analytics to deliver personalised initiative on “Sanskrit Password” is
collections, demonstrating data driven
nudges for customer conversations, an innovative blend of tradition and
decision making across the bank. We
driving higher impact and customer technology—to enhance digital security
are also building Machine Learning
satisfaction. ~ 30% uplift on key while reconnecting individuals with
Operations capabilities to ensure
metrics like Term Deposit (TD) booking, India’s rich linguistic heritage.
scalable and efficient development and
Mutual Fund (MF) transactions, credit
deployment of models and strategies
card sales has been observed and ~10 Being a responsible
with 4,000+ customer features and
points Higher Net Promoter Score corporate citizen
proprietary continuous live monitoring
(NPS) of ‘Siddhi’ journeys, leading to
toolkits. Our modern data stack
increased customer satisfaction. We remain committed to the model
integrates cloud native tools, real–time
of banking that fosters a more
data pipelines and manage 3+ Peta
inclusive and equitable economy,
Customer obsession
Byte to enable faster analytics.
empowers thriving communities and
Sparsh, our Customer Obsession
support a healthier planet. Over the
program, is a Bank–wide priority and
Premiumisation of our franchise year, we continued to build a strong,
a core area of distinctiveness for us,
We had completed an important stakeholder–focused ESG culture
the tenets of which are now ingrained
step on our premiumisation agenda at the Bank. Our CSR interventions
across all our 5,800+ branches, every
with acquisition of Citibank India now reach millions of participants
customer touchpoint, and amongst all
consumer businesses in March 2023 in all corners of India. Our flagship
our 1,05,000+ colleagues. It aims to
(Legal Day1) and added diverse talent program – ‘Sustainable Livelihoods’,
link initiatives to enhance customer
pool of 3200+ Citi employees as part achieved a significant milestone by
satisfaction, leading to improved NPS
of the acquisition. As the second impacting 2.05 million participants in
and better business outcomes. We
leg of the acquisition, we completed 300 districts in 32 states and union
have been improving our institutional
the migration of customer data territories as of March 31, 2025. Under
capabilities by empowering our
from Citibank systems to Axis Bank the Axis ‘DilSe’ umbrella, our programs
employees with Adi (Our Gen AI
systems in July 2024 (Legal Day2). in Education reach thousands of
Platform) and Kaleidoscope (a single
This marks full integration of ~2.4 mn children especially in the North–east
chronological view of customer
customers with their multiple products and eastern India. This year, the Bank
footprint, across various channels to
migrating into Axis Bank’s platform. introduced sports as a new thematic
improve first–contact resolution).
Customers are now able to access area and is supporting interventions
We have gained 59 (159 on indexed the comprehensive suite of Axis’s from the grassroots to the Olympics
baseline of 100) points on retail NPS in financial solutions. and Paralympics level.
fiscal 2025 and retained Rank 2 in India
We are beginning to see the tangible
in the external benchmarking study Fortifying our defences outcomes of our steadfast commitment
undertaken by independent agency
Digitisation of banking services to the GPS strategy and transformation
Kantar for Axis Bank.
continues to create both newer agenda. With each milestone we reach,
opportunities and threats in many expectations grow — and so does our
Analytics for delivering areas. One such interesting area is resolve. We remain deeply motivated
customer delight fraud prevention, where digitisation is to sustain this momentum and continue
Customer delight is an outcome both a threat and an opportunity. At delivering against the ever–rising
achieved by consistently delivering Axis Bank, we are committed to making aspirations of our stakeholders.
the right service at the Moments of banking safe and trustworthy for our
Warm regards,
Truths of customer need. Using our customers. We continue to invest in
personalisation engine which has been real time transaction and stakeholder Subrat Mohanty
live for over three years now, we have monitoring, dynamic onboarding
Executive Director – Banking
seen significant lift in the conversions checks, use of analytics and technology
Operations & Transformation
for select products. The engine also across our businesses to not just
helps us scan over mitigate fraud risk but also build fraud
prevention as our formidable strength
and competitive advantage by investing
117
118
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
Rooted in our promise of ‘Har raah dil se open’, the Bank embraces
openness — towards people, ideas, progress, and the planet. This
ethos shapes how we engage with customers, empower employees,
support communities, and drive responsible banking. It reflects in the
way we create and share value across stakeholder groups, blending
empathy with execution, innovation with inclusion, and growth with
purpose. Through every action, we remain committed to building
trust and fostering opportunities for all those we serve.
119
Har raah dil se open
FOR CUSTOMERS – BANKING BEYOND TRANSACTIONS S5
Relationships shaped by our
dil se open bankers
At Axis Bank, every
customer relationship is
shaped by our commitment
to serve – seeking every
possible ‘raah’ to support,
empower and add value
to our customers’ lives.
With over 1 lakh dil se open
bankers at the heart of
our operations, we blend
human warmth with real–
time intelligence to deliver
meaningful interactions.
‘Siddhi’, our intelligent
frontline companion,
enhances this connection,
Our vision of banking goes beyond insights from over 12,000 customers,
enabling our teams to serve
processes and products. It’s dialogues with more than 1,000
with purpose, precision, and
about the people we serve and employees, and global benchmarking
a distinctly dil se open spirit. those who serve them. Our 1.04 against 50+ leading organisations,
lakhs dil se open Bankers are the Sparsh represents a transformative
torchbearers of our culture, driven shift in how we perceive
Material Issues Linkage by our collective mission to serve customer interactions.
with empathy and commitment.
M6 Our first phase, Sparsh 1.0, laid the
foundation for tangible change by
Sparsh – A Culture
introducing centralised processes,
Capital Linkage of Genuine Care and setting targets for key metrics, and
embedding STAR behaviours. Building
Customer Obsession
on this foundation, Sparsh 2.0 is
designed to link our customer–focused
Launched as the Bank’s flagship
initiatives directly with business
customer obsession program,
SDGs Impacted
outcomes, ensuring every interaction
Sparsh was born from our earnest
adds value and deepens trust.
belief in genuinely understanding
customer aspirations. Following
an extensive exercise to gain
120
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For customers – Banking beyond transactions
KEY FOCUS AREAS OF SPARSH 2.0
Customer Advocacy
Listening with Intent
Expanding business
Embedding empathy
reach through positive
& active listening
word–of–mouth
Customer Loyalty Focus on Input
Increasing Metrics
engagement by Reducing
becoming the Turnaround Time
Delighting
primary bank for (TAT)
Customers, Every Day
customers
Business Agile Customer
Outcomes Service
Driving performance Real time solutions for
through targeted customer complaints
customer–centric and follow–up on NPS
metrics
WoW! Moments
Low–cost, high–impact gestures for customers
that surprise and delight
Building Blocks of
Customer Obsession
Crafting Delightful Journeys
We embed WoW! moments into every
customer journey, making interactions
distinctive and memorable. The Ignite
Idea Generation Platform reflects our
dedication to delighting customers by
continuously elevating the banking
experience by leveraging innovative
ideas from our employees.
121
Har raah dil se open
Embedding Sparsh Values in Kaleidoscope, offers internal users a
Every Employee unified, chronological view of customer 159
foot prints, instances of service failures,
Customer–centricity is an integral application status and much more across Retail Net Promoter Score
part of our culture, reflected in every various channels of the Bank. on indexed baseline of 100,
Axis Banker. Sparsh Week 2024 Since inception of baseline
exemplified this commitment, with Ignite: Ideas that Inspire Action (Q1FY23)
pan–bank initiatives engaging over 1.8
lakh employees and partners, sparking From streamlined home loan bookings #2
heartfelt interactions and reinforcing our and insurance processes to QR–
culture of creating everyday delight. code–powered onboarding solutions, Rank in India external
Ignite gives life to ideas that enrich
benchmarking by Kantar
Measure and Act on Customer customer experiences. From 1,000+ among large peer banks
Feedback transformative ideas submitted by our
people, 50+ have been shortlisted, and
10
From the top management to frontline the three winning ones are now actively % y–o–y
teams, listening with empathy is reshaping our processes and services.
Gross complaints
part of our institutional culture that
In fiscal 2025, Ignite also saw deep
helps us genuinely understand the
engagement from over 10,000 subsidiary ~5.9
customer. Sparsh Labs help us refine lakhs
and off–role employees, indicating the
our services based on real customer
collective enthusiasm across ‘One Axis’ . Net complaints
insights. By aligning our actions to
customer feedback and Net Promoter
Key Innovations 79
Scores (NPS), we ensure meaningful
responsive service that meets and
Retail
Wholesale Net Promoter
exceeds expectations.
» Independent home loans and Score (from baseline of 33)
insurance bookings: Simplifying
Building Institutional Capabilities
documentation, ensuring quicker 98
%
We continually invest in developing and seamless issuance of interest
comprehensive institutional frameworks certificates, thus enabling smooth Burgundy 6 Hour Promise
and technology solutions that simplify tax compliance. TAT adherence
processes and enrich customer
» Real–time KYC compliance via CVL
interactions. Capabilities such as Axis 3
KRA API integration: Enhancing
Promise and tech–driven platforms like
accuracy, reducing discrepancies,
Adi and Kaleidoscope exemplify our SA onboarding TAT
and significantly improving
commitment to operational excellence (No. of days P95)
transactional reliability.
and creating customer delight.
33
Adi, our generative AI assistant , Wholesale
empowers employees to self–serve » QR code onboarding for Current
SEG onboarding TATs
and resolve queries instantly across
Accounts: Helping businesses
(No. of days P50)
44+ products. By reducing backend
efficiently manage payments through
dependency, it boosts frontline
integrated QR solutions and soundbox
confidence and agility—enabling technologies, enabling quicker 58 %
faster, smarter customer interactions.
onboarding and simplified collections.
Before Time Renewal under
With Adi’s support, employees are
better equipped to manage queries » Automated re–KYC reminders for SEG segment
independently and consistently deliver Current Accounts: This digital–
delightful customer experiences. first facility enables easy updates 7.13 %
for unchanged KYC information,
ensuring hassle–free and Social Media Net Sentiment
continuous compliance.
122
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For customers – Banking beyond transactions
Sparsh Week August 2024 Engagement 1,000
+
Ideas through Ignite
250
+
PR coverage
4,500
+
Sparsh stories
500
+
Senior citizen customers met
50
+
55,000 10,000
+ Senior leadership participation
In–person customer Subsidiary & off–role
meet–ups employee engagements 100
+
Sparsh squads on the ground
350 1.8
+ lakhs+
Customer engagements Employees & partners
across CBG & Wholesale engaged
123
Har raah dil se open
‘Siddhi’ – Empowering Personalised Nudges for Deeper It essentially provides a
Conversations comprehensive snapshot of the
Frontline Employees,
customer’s relationship with the Bank
‘Siddhi’ uses advanced analytics to
Enhancing Connections enabling teams to uncover insights,
deliver personalised insights and
identify opportunities for cross–
strategic nudges, with frontline teams
‘Siddhi’ is the Bank’s dynamic, sell, drive product penetration and
receiving four or more suggestions
mobile–first platform for its dil se strengthen the customer’s primary
per interaction. These tailored
open Employees. Today, over 90,000 banking engagement with the Bank.
conversations drive higher impact
of the Bank’s employees utilise
and consistently boost customer
‘Siddhi’ to gain real–time insights
satisfaction, as seen in improved Net
and personalised recommendations,
Promoter Score (NPS) compared to
thus enabling every interaction to be
traditional channels.
insightful, meaningful, and rewarding.
~30
%
Uplift on key metrics
like Term Deposit (TD)
booking, Mutual Fund (MF) Enhanced Productivity and
transactions, credit card sales Delightful Service
‘Siddhi’ enhances productivity with
~10 tools such as a daily calendar that
points
prioritises customer interactions, helps
Higher Net Promoter Score
bankers organise their workday more
(NPS) of ‘Siddhi’ journeys,
effectively, and devotes sufficient time
leading to increased
to personalised customer attention.
customer satisfaction
The integrated calendar supports
a consistent customer connect
rhythm, helping employees plan daily
Real–Time Insights, Meaningful
interactions more effectively. This
Interactions
drives deeper engagement within their
mapped book and enhances outreach
‘Siddhi’ gives frontline bankers real–
to the existing customer base.
time access to customer insights–from
relationships to past interactions–
enabling meaningful and precise
service 24x7. With 30+ cross–sell
journeys across deposits, cards, loans,
investments, and remittances and 25+
service features, every interaction is
smarter and more rewarding.
The platform enhances the ease of 360–Degree Customer View Transforming Everyday Banking
doing business by enabling employees
to provide on–the–go services such Siddhi’s holistic, 360–degree customer ‘Siddhi’ blends technology with a
as instant statement access and view offers bankers real–time human touch, empowering frontline
facilitating business transactions customer analytics, helping them teams to nurture lasting customer
real–time while sitting in front of anticipate needs, swiftly address relationships by creating delightful
the customer. queries, and close service requests customer journeys every day.
faster, ensuring every customer
feels valued.
124
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For customers – Banking beyond transactions
SPARSH 2.0 Stories
Courage, Empathy and Timely Action
When a senior citizen visited a Through quick thinking and
branch intending to prematurely teamwork, the branch staff
close his ₹30 lakhs FD, Bank Officer prevented the customer from losing
Sivaprakash sensed something his life savings and protected him
was amiss. The customer seemed from being defrauded.
unusually tense and was found to
“This is an immensely satisfying and
be receiving instructions from a
proud moment for Axisians.
fraudster via WhatsApp. Acting
The presence of mind displayed
swiftly, Sivaprakash alerted
by our young colleague, Sri
Operations Head Sasikala and
Sivaprakash, is commendable. His
Branch Head Kavitha Venkatesan.
decision to escalate the matter to
Sivaprakash Though the customer initially senior branch officials, combined
resisted their concern, the team with the smart actions of the
Manager, Branch Banking
patiently explained similar scam branch leadership team, collectively
cases. When the fraudster called prevented a significant financial loss
again, Kavitha insisted on a video for our customer.” – P. Devarajan,
Porur, Chennai, South 2 call, causing the fraudster to hang Senior Vice President,
up and erase all chat history. Chennai, South 2
Remembering Sonam Chahal and her Legacy of Excellence
Late Sonam Chahal, Deputy someone “full of compassion and
Manager at the Bank’s Gurugram concern for others”. Her kindness,
Sector 17 branch, was committed work ethic, and joyful spirit
to exceptional service, which continue to live on, embodying our
made her not just a colleague cherished Sparsh values.
but a role model and a true Axis
Today, we celebrate the inspiration
brand ambassador.
she has become. People like Sonam
“She was a very special girl,” never truly leave us; they continue
recalled Retired Air Chief Marshal to shine, reminding us to be better,
N.C. Suri, in a letter written in kinder, and more dedicated to our
appreciation of Sonam’s service daily commitments.
excellence. He requested that the
Late Mrs. Sonam Chahal
letter be shared with her family,
Deputy Manager,
as they coped with the pain of her
Branch Banking
irreparable loss. We visited Sonam’s
home and conveyed our deepest
Sector 17, Gurugram condolences while sharing with
her parents her remembrance as
125
Har raah dil se open
FOR CUSTOMERS – BANKING IN THE DIGITAL–FIRST ERA S2 S5
Innovating with a
digital–first approach
Digital is at the core
of how we imagine
the future of banking.
We continue to invest
heavily in building
proprietary technologies
and in–house capabilities
to deliver digital–first
products tailored for
evolving needs. We focus
on creating seamless,
secure, and scalable
experiences that
elevate every customer
interaction across
Since 2019, we have been on an enrich customer experiences at
every touchpoint.
ambitious mission to redefine every touchpoint. Harnessing
banking by investing in building advanced platforms like DevSecOps
robust digital capabilities. and secure cloud infrastructure,
Our digital team, which includes we proudly deliver cutting–edge
dedicated engineers and creative digital products that resonate deeply
designers, focuses on developing with customers.
Material Issues Linkage
pioneering digital solutions that
M6 M7 M9
Digital Strategy
Capital Linkage
Build and scale a fully–digital Extend the capabilities of
bank within the Bank ‘open’ across the Bank
SDGs Impacted
‘open’ by Enabling assisted
Axis Bank digital journeys
126
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For customers – Banking in the digital–first era
‘open’ by Axis Bank: Banking Transformed
‘open’ by Axis Bank is our flagship Built to promote transparency Customer experience remains at the
digital banking entity, operating and accessibility, ‘open’ has grown core of digital banking. The ‘open’ app
autonomously within the Bank and steadily, delivering 15% growth in offers personalised nudges across
contributing ~6% to the overall assets and 47% in liabilities in fiscal multiple features. Innovations like
business. With a sharp focus on 2025. We continue to build on our ‘One View’ (India’s first private bank
customer acquisition, business ambition of becoming a digital leader offering to aggregate multi–bank and
expansion, and profitability, ‘open’ in consumer lending. Our leadership demat accounts) and a transparent
offers end–to–end digital journeys in the Account Aggregator ecosystem ‘Benefits’ dashboard further elevate
across 30+ products spanning savings, has strengthened underwriting for Mobile Banking, making it genuinely
investments, payments, and both new–to–bank (NTB) customers, while open, effortless, and engaging.
secured and unsecured lending. a growing number of partnerships are
Every experience—from digital accelerating digital loan origination.
onboarding to seamless servicing,
is designed to be intuitive,
efficient, and secure.
~3
crores
Registered customer base
for Mobile Banking
47
%
Credit Cards are issued
digitally end–to–end
15
million+
Mobile Banking active
monthly users
4.8
Rating of mobile application
on the Apple App Store
4.7
Rating of mobile application
on the Google Play Store
127
Har raah dil se open
What ‘open’ by Axis Bank Brings to Life
Flagship innovations Highlights
First
Unified dashboard to view all Private bank in India to offer this
bank and demat accounts via advantage
Account Aggregator
One View 1
million+
Users
100% digital account opening ₹20,000
(Special Edition Amaze Account for
young, digital–first customers) Average balance/account with
ASAP Digital exclusive benefits on spend activation
Savings Account
In–house video KYC platform 12.8
lakhs
and used Bank–wide Accessible
Accounts opened through VCIP
to partners
VISION – Video KYC
Instant utility bill payments via 55
%
the ‘open’ app
Growth on BBPS categories
BillPay (Utilities) of BillPay
83
%
Fully–digital onboarding,
Of Credit Card engagement is
cross–sell, upsell & servicing
Olive – Credit now digital
Card Journeys
Investment platform for MFs, ₹152
crores
digital gold, PPF – personalised
investor journeys In fee income
Insta Invest
Digital IN5NITE: Celebrating
5 Years of Digital Leadership
In fiscal 2025, the Bank hosted
Digital IN5NITE, a three–day event,
celebrating innovation, impact, and
future growth in Digital Banking.
The event featured strategic
workshops, panel discussions, and
industry interactions, reflecting our
digital journey and reaffirming our
commitment to building a digital–first
dil se open bank.
128
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For customers – Banking in the digital–first era
Our New Digital Offerings
We expanded our digital product Credit Card against Fixed View, in fiscal 2025 we also launched
suite in fiscal 2025 with several Deposit the option to link demat holdings. This
additions that enhance convenience, feature uses the Account Aggregator
Customers can now apply for a Credit
transparency, and financial wellbeing. ecosystem and offers customers
Card backed by their FD without
complete visibility and control over
liquidating it or compromising on
My Money – Your Personal their finances.
interest. With zero paperwork and
Finance Partner
flexible limits, this offering also helps
Fixed Deposit via UPI
A powerful personal finance build credit history.
manager that offers a 360° view of Customers can now open an FD
a customer’s net worth by auto– One View – Unified Financial instantly using funds from any bank
fetching assets and liabilities. It Tracking account via UPI or Net Banking. This
provides insights on spending patterns, eliminates the need for beneficiary
We are the first private bank to launch
access to credit scores, and tools for addition or fund transfers beforehand.
this game–changing feature. While
managing insurance, all designed
customers could already link and
to help customers make informed
monitor all their Bank accounts in One
financial decisions.
Project neo: Reimagining
the Future of Wholesale A cloud–native solution A digital boost for
that combines Payments, treasury clients, driving
Banking
Trade, Forex and more higher adoption through
under one unified more innovative,
We are building India’s most future–
platform, enabling rapid streamlined interfaces.
ready Digital Wholesale Bank, driven
scaling and flexibility.
by a deep understanding of how
our clients run their businesses, not
just how they use banking products.
neo for neo for
neo is designed around customer Corporates Markets
journeys — tailored by segment,
business size, digital maturity, and
user persona. Whether a high–growth neo in
Corporate
MSME or a complex large enterprise, Action neo for
Developer
neo adapts seamlessly to deliver the Business
Portal
right experience.
Axis neo
Connect
With 135+ live APIs, Tailored for MSMEs,
it empowers clients this platform combines
to integrate directly A plug–and–play API banking and non–
into our banking suite for seamless ERP banking services into
infrastructure, integration, ensuring a single, intuitive
making co– that banking becomes experience, simplifying
creation real–time a native part of every operations and
and impactful. business workflow. amplifying growth.
129
Har raah dil se open
FOR CUSTOMERS – BHARAT BANKING S3 S5
Fuelling dreams,
driving development
Bharat Banking is our
focused approach to
empower customers
across emerging India
with seamless, digital–first
financial solutions. Backed
by rising formalisation,
digital adoption, and
growing financial
Empowering the
D
awareness, Bharat markets 98,232
Grassroots crores
present a transformative
Agri loan book
opportunity. With a During the year, we made
7% y–o–y growth
meaningful progress in deepening
customer–centric model
financial inclusion by strategically
and deep distribution, 234
expanding our presence across
we are building a distinct Rural and Semi–Urban (RuSu)
BC banking outlets
ecosystem to drive markets. Our extensive on–ground
network spans across 2,736
inclusive growth and 2
dedicated branches, backed by a lakhs
lasting impact.
vast Business Correspondent (BC)
New accounts opened via
infrastructure. This ecosystem
BC network
ensures that reliable, inclusive
banking services are delivered
Material Issues Linkage 28,000
directly to the doorstep of even +
M1 M6 M9
the most remote communities.
CSCs network
Our continued focus on
D
Capital Linkage accessibility and empowerment 729
crores
resulted in strong outcomes in
fiscal 2025, as evidenced by AEPS transaction volume
increased transactional volumes,
D
new account openings, and 8,331
crores
SDGs Impacted
enhanced credit access.
Loan disbursements
130
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For customers – Bharat banking
Benefits of Bharat Banking
Driving Profitable Growth
» Leveraging robust credit demand in agri & MSME segments
» Enhanced returns through customised end–to–end financial solutions
» Sustainable profitability from risk–adjusted, longer–tenure products
Priority Sector Lending (PSL)
» Contributes over 80% to organic Small & Marginal Farmers (SMF) PSL targets
» Strategic focus on farm credit, MFI, tractors, gold loans and micro PSL
» Efficiently meets regulatory benchmarks, driving compliant growth
Financial Inclusion
» Empowering millions through tailored credit, insurance and savings solutions
» Localised credit policies, ensuring products fit regional needs
» Last–mile connectivity driving grassroots economic empowerment
Business Correspondent Model
» Rapid expansion into unbanked and underserved regions
» Extensive BC network, reducing infrastructure costs
» Seamless service delivery at the doorstep, enhancing financial access
Expanded Market Coverage
» Deep penetration into RuSu markets
» Robust network, together with branches, BC points, and tailored offerings
» Enhanced customer acquisition, financial literacy and market share growth
131
Har raah dil se open
KEY INITIATIVES IN FISCAL 2025
250
+
» Our Mandi Ecosystem deepened rural economic engagement in 423 New Bharat Banking
branches opened in
Mandis, generating over 1.47 lakh leads with a 23% conversion rate.
fiscal 2025
This resulted in ₹313 crores in CASATD Monthly Daily Average Balance
(MDAB) and ₹191.63 crores in Asset Disbursement, thereby enhancing
rural prosperity. 10,000
+
» Through an expanded Partnership Ecosystem, we formed 15 new New customer relationships
alliances, bringing our total to over 50 active partnerships. These
forged through Connecting
strategic collaborations enhanced our market reach, integrated us into
the Dots
corporate value chains, and bridged critical service gaps.
» We strengthened our Bharat Banking reach by opening 250+ new 15
branches. Our reach also includes 28,000+ CSCs, driven by Village–level
Entrepreneurs, ensuring last–mile connectivity. New strategic partnerships
initiated
» Embracing localised credit policies, we tailored financial products to
diverse regional needs, enhancing financial access and driving deeper
market penetration into previously underserved customer segments.
» Our digital acceleration efforts led to the adoption of digital capabilities
such as eKYC, eNACH, eSign, and eStamp. Farm mechanisation became
fully digital, achieving 100% SFDC (Loan Origination System) adoption.
Microfinance transitioned to a fully digital process. Continue to focus on
digitisation of all the streams of Bharat Banking.
» Connecting the Dots (CTD) redefined our customer engagement
by generating over 2.87 lakh leads, and converting more than
97,000 customers.
Innovative Products Crafted for Bharat’s Banking Needs
Gold Loan Overdraft on UPI Mid–Term Loan (MTL) Co-lending
Enabling instant fund access for MFI Customers Initiated co-lending partnerships
through UPI for merchant A targeted loan bridging short– to strengthen our outreach in
payments from overdraft accounts; term and long–term credit needs, Bharat markets. The platform is
provides customers with maximum empowering micro–entrepreneurs now operational with 18 unique
flexibility, convenience, and with swift disbursals, structured partners across 22 relationships.
financial independence. repayments, and sustainable
economic growth.
132
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For customers – Bharat banking
Focused Support for National and
State–sponsored Schemes
By deepening our involvement in
various government–sponsored
schemes, we ensured individuals
and businesses across Bharat had
access to formal financial services.
We actively supported initiatives
like SWAYAM (Self–Employment
and Skill Development Scheme),
MMAPUY (Mukhyamantri Antyodaya
Parivar Utthan Yojana) in Haryana,
CMEGP (Chief Minister’s Employment
Generation Program) in Maharashtra,
MMUKY (Mukhyamantri Udyam
Kranti Yojana) in Madhya Pradesh,
ASY (Aajeevika Samvardhan Yojana)
in Chhattisgarh, CMMFI (Chief
Minister’s Micro Finance Initiative)
in the Northeast, and WBBCCS
(West Bengal Bhabishyat Credit
How We Promoted Enhancing Access
Card Scheme) in West Bengal. These
Financial Inclusion Wider adoption of Aadhaar–enabled schemes directly address regional
Payment Services (AePS) improved economic challenges, enabling
We focused on empowering digital banking reach in remote areas; targeted financial interventions
underserved communities across BCs facilitated transactions and that uplift local communities and
Bharat, ensuring financial services generated leads. strengthen regional economies.
reached them at their doorstep.
Driving National Initiatives for Championing Financial Literacy
Expanding the BC Network Inclusive Growth
By promoting digital banking literacy,
We grew our Business Correspondent Through our active participation in we ensure that communities can
network by increasing BC points, schemes such as Pradhan Mantri confidently embrace and utilise
BCBOs, and VLEs; dedicated financial Vishwakarma Yojana, PMSVANidhi (PM financial services. We pay special
facilitators ensured convenient Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi), emphasis on empowering women
and inclusive service delivery at PMEGP (Prime Minister’s Employment through tailored loans, microfinance
the grassroots. Generation Program), NULM (National solutions, and savings products,
Urban Livelihoods Mission), NRLM fostering self–reliance at the
Technology–driven Banking (National Rural Livelihoods Mission), grassroots level.
PMMY (Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana),
Leveraging the ‘open’ platform, AIF (Agriculture Infrastructure Fund),
API integrations, and e–KYC, we FPO (Farmer Producer Organisation), 80
enabled real–time services through and PMFME (PM Formalisation of %
BC partners. Collaborations with Micro Food Processing Enterprises Contribution to
Technology Service Providers (TSPS) Scheme), we expanded our support to Organic
and fintechs drove seamless B2C and micro–entrepreneurs, artisans, street SMF PSL
B2B efficiency. vendors, women, small–scale industries,
and farmers.
133
Har raah dil se open
FOR EMPLOYEES S5
Enabling continuous learning
and collective growth
Our greatest strength
is our people — bankers
who lead with empathy,
act with integrity, and
seize every opportunity
to support customers,
communities, and
colleagues. Our culture of
openness fosters trust and
collaboration. By focusing
on learning and
a value–driven culture,
Our people play an integral and employee–centric, where talent
we empower our
role in shaping the future of is developed, diverse ideas are valued,
employees to thrive.
the Bank, ensuring business and individuals are supported in their
development and growth through professional journey through
their commitment and strategic a robust learning architecture. From
contribution. We foster a culture facilitating career transition through
that encourages continuous initiatives like ‘thrive’, to ensuring
learning, adaptability, and a sense employee wellbeing through holistic
of responsibility and leadership wellness programs, we are committed
at all levels. Our workplace is to supporting our employees at every
designed to be agile, inclusive, stage of their journey.
Material Issues Linkage
M11 M13
104,453 28,910
Capital Linkage
Total employees Total women in workforce
D
0.25
crores
SDGs Impacted
Profit per employee
134
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002244–-2255
For employees
Opening Doors to the Best Talent
Ongoing 44 Management Trainees, 108 Interns
Efforts to source niche talent from
In the leadership pipeline from
Law, Design, and CA campuses
top–tier B–schools (IIMs, ISB, etc.)
Hire
C
d
a m
th
p
r
u
o
s
u g
p
h
ro
O
gr
p
a
5
e
m
9
n
Specialist
Hiring AHEAD 2
O
ex
5
n
e
b
w
c
o
u
o
a
ti
m
r
v
d
e
e
e
n
d
M
l e
f
B
r
a
o
A
d
m
er s
tale
t
n
o
t
r
f
e
r
c
o
r
m
ui t
d
y
iv
o
e
u
r
n
se
g
E W
c
m
o
i
h
d–
o
s
rt
e
s
n
i
i
n
o
t
r
o
r oles,
disciplines, enhancing RI S e L contributing
A e a
Multip
s
l
k
e
i l
u
ls
n
d
it
iv
s
ersity
H(
r
T –
e
ri
H
Our Campus
d
A
to
1
d
3
i
3
v e
h
r
i
s
r
i
e
ty
s
H
O
T
f
D
c
s
u
f
s
o
to
r
m
Re
is
t
e
a
d
il
T
D )
a in
– D
H
i
i
n
r i
F
n
i
g
s c
P
a
r
l
o
2
g
0
ra
2
m
5
s
e ri
s p F
ro
o
l
r
e s
C
f
o
r
r
o
p
m
or ate
Operations, e p new IIMs
Lending, Bharat lo & equivalents
y
a
B
n
a
d
n
m
ki
o
n
r
g
e
,
A
c A
Frontliners tr
5
a
,
i
5
n
7
e
5
d
a d e
m y
x i
(
s
A
S
S
a
A
le
)
s
A B L
e
393 hires
Tra th in r – o D u a g n e h d p l t d o h y e e p m H lo o i y r d e e e – d l Y A o B u Y n B g : B A a x n is k B er a s nk Tech Hiring F B ac r – o r s o m c s h s o o b t o h u l e s s i r n ess functions
for Frontline Sales
4,004 BROs 113
Onboarded through flagship Engineers hired from
program for branch banking officers IITs, NITs and top
tech universities
The Bank continues to invest in and scale its
D
capabilities to meet its key skill and talent needs 31,674 6,187
through campus programs and partnerships.
In fiscal 2025, these initiatives brought in over Total new hires Average hiring cost per FTE
10,000 joiners. Efforts focused on launching new D
25.5 12,193
programs and enhancing existing ones to address % crores
critical skill needs.
Turnover rate of Staff cost
Additionally, the Bank entered into two new employees
10,000
partnerships – one, to meet emerging demand +
34
in rural and semi–urban locations, and two, %
Employees hired from campus
to tap into new talent pools through a digital
Hiring diversity rate and academia programs
service provider.
135
Har raah dil se open
Nurturing a Culture of Lifelong Learning
At Axis Bank, learning is a continuous We have established 11 Capability sales capability in frontline employees
process. We have built an ecosystem Factories to enhance banking through drip–based learning. Designed
where every employee, at every stage knowledge. The Capability Factory as a learning sustenance program, it
of their career, has the opportunity and Skill Academy equip employees guides new joiners in engaging with
to learn, evolve, and lead. We foster with advanced, role–specific skills for their supervisors within their first
a workplace where knowledge is immediate impact. Our structured 90 days, enabling senior employees
shared openly, learning is immersive, approach provides focused upskilling to mentor juniors and improve lead
and growth is limitless. At the heart programs to deepen expertise conversion while reducing attrition.
of our learning ecosystem is the in areas like branch banking and
We are building the next generation
Open Learning Lab (OLL), an AI– relationship management.
of leaders who can lead with purpose,
powered hub offering role–based
One of our key learning initiatives in agility, and openness through
courses, fintech certifications, and
fiscal 2025 has been the Knowledge focused programs.
leadership training.
Transfer Program (KTP), which builds
Our Leadership Growth Programs
1,000 Change Leaders BetterUp Coaching Leader Class
A 2–day classroom training A six–month, one–on–one A monthly, high–impact live
curated for mid to senior level coaching journey for our senior session led by industry and
leaders, this program focuses leaders to develop leadership internal thought leaders. With
on strategic thinking, customer– behaviours & growth mindset. over 4,000 employees attending
centricity, and people– It is focused on enhancing regularly, these sessions bridge
first leadership. emotional intelligence, resilience, vision with action and spark
and personal growth. cross–level inspiration.
Some of our other high–impact » Go Beyond – 6–24–month
learning initiatives include: skill–building initiative for frontline
6
employees across departments for million+ hours
» Headstart – Organisational
accelerating productivity. Total learning hours of
induction program integrating new
employees in fiscal 2025
joiners into the ecosystem. » Academia – Train and deploy
model for freshers from colleges/
» XPert – Honing communication skills
institutes through classroom 1,00,000
of front–line managers & supervisors +
and on–the–job learning
to better represent brand Axis. Employees
through internships.
» High–Performing Leaders (HPL) –
» Axis Competency Profiler –
6–month supervisory capability 10
A mandatory online assessment +
program integrating a unique
on Brand Axis, Domain, Customer Skill factories
combination of self–learning series
Management, and Risk &
and live practice sessions.
Compliance for all employees
across the organisation.
136
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For employees
Training and Development
58.6
Average person hours
of training – All eligible
employees
71
%
Share of trainings conducted
online/e–learning
Championing a Diverse, Inclusive
and Equitable Workplace
The Bank is committed to fostering This initiative evolved into the “Gateway
a workplace where diverse voices to Inclusion” program, promoting
are valued, inclusion is intentional, everyday inclusion. With over 16,000 33,000
+
and opportunities are equitable. Our people managers engaged, the
DE&I strategy—rooted in empathy and Bank ensures diverse perspectives Women impacted in
purposeful action—aims to create a shape decisions. rural India through
culture of belonging. In pursuit of 30% Axis Women in Motion
women’s representation by fiscal 2027, From Advocacy to Action: programs
we are scaling diverse hiring across all The Bank’s “Women in Sales” resource
functions and launching initiatives that group, led by 30 senior leaders and 27.7
%
reflect our values. 100 employees, supports women
through mentoring and capacity Diversity ratio as on
We champion opportunities for
building, elevating women’s success March 31, 2025
all identities—from second–career
in sales.
women to LGBTQIA+ employees—
through inclusive hiring, mentorship, From Alignment to Reimagination: 1.01
accessibility, and progressive Breaking heuristic patterns in hiring,
Ratio of fixed pay of
policies. Our efforts also extend to the #HouseWorkIsWork campaign
women to men
communities and industry to advance continues to champion homegrown
DE&I across society. skills. Attracting over 4,000
candidates, it redefines career breaks
Building an Inclusive Workspace
as fresh starts enriched with
From Bias to Inclusion: life–taught skills.
In fiscal 2021, the Bank launched “Pause
for Bias” in new joiner induction to raise
awareness of inherent biases.
137
Har raah dil se open
From Fitting–In to Standing Out: Women as Independent Economic Building Inclusive Industries and
Through the #ComeAsYouAre Entities: Axis Women in Motion, the Businesses: This year the Bank’s
Charter, the Bank fosters an inclusive Bank’s grassroots effort, has reached initiative “Axis VIBE”, (varsity of
environment for LGBTQIA+ employees over 25,000 people across towns, inclusive business enterprises),
and customers, with progressive hinterlands and talukas. This program reaching 165 organisations, continued
policies like partner health coverage, focuses on encouraging women to champion robust DE&I practices
inclusive leave, and gender–affirming to become independent economic and nurture a collaborative ecosystem
dress codes. The Pride365 group has entities. valuing equity and inclusion.
grown from 7 to over 1,000 members,
representing diverse queer identities. Students as Future DE&I Champions Using Interactive Mediums like
at the Workplace: To nurture Podcasts for Advocacy: Axis Bank’s
From Uniformity to Personalised future inclusive leaders, the Axis Women in Banking podcast features
Accessibility: The Bank is committed DE&I curriculum on Building and women leaders discussing themes like
to building an inclusive workplace Leading Inclusive Organisations career gaps, financial empowerment,
where individuals with disabilities was implemented in 20 academic entrepreneurship, tech, sales, and
can thrive. By learning from their institutions, certifying over 800 risk–taking. These 20–30 minute
experiences, we enhance awareness students. These sessions equip episodes aim to inspire inclusion
and sensitivity across the organisation. emerging leaders to foster and sustain and encourage women to pursue
Their Key Result Areas (KRAs) are inclusive workplaces. professional growth.
tailored to individual strengths,
ensuring equitable growth.
Listening with Empathy
At Axis, we have built a multi–layered Additionally, our Values Voices
listening architecture that fosters an survey further gauges how deeply Value Scorecard
environment where feedback flows our culture and values are embraced.
freely and every employee feels Each year, we run the survey to assess 73
%
valued, heard, and connected to a alignment with our five core values—
Ownership
shared purpose. ownership, teamwork, transparency,
ethics, and customer centricity. In
We are committed to continuous 63
fiscal 2025, following a major cultural %
listening through a blend of internal
transformation, we launched the Teamwork
and external touchpoints.
updated survey in January based on our
Our AI–enabled sensing channel–
refreshed Values framework. 87
Amber, keeps us closely connected %
to employee sentiment in real time The scores were presented to the Transparency
– engaging over 49,000 employees in leadership in the form of the Values
95,000+ conversations. This year we Scorecard and are being used to 70
%
reached out to 20,000+ frontline Sales establish a baseline for tracking our
Ethics
Executives, capturing feedback from progress moving forward.
Day 3 of their journey with us.
84
%
Customer Centricity
138
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For employees
Pride in Axis
94 92 91
% % %
Are proud to represent Axis in Feel good about the ways in which Recommend Axis as a great place
conversations with customers Axis Bank contributes to the society to work
94 90
% %
Believe Axis Bank is well– Feel their family and friends believe
positioned to win in the future that Axis Bank is a good place
to work
We also benchmark ourselves against global standards through external platforms like Great Place to Work® (GPTW),
to validate progress and uncover opportunities for meaningful improvement.
Our centralised HR query resolution platform, HResponse, handled 83,482 employee queries in fiscal 2025, ensuring
a seamless support experience for employees.
As part of our continuous listening approach, these multiple avenues help surface recurring themes and employee
concerns, enabling proactive improvements in policies, communication, and service delivery, thereby impacting
overall engagement.
139
Har raah dil se open
Caring for Our People
At Axis, we believe that when we care » Programs like Back to Work, Leading
D
for our people, they care for all that with Empathy, and Moms at Work 280
crores+
we create together. In fiscal 2025, ensure smooth transitions and
invested in
we redefined wellbeing—not as a inclusive support post–maternity.
employee
benefit, but as a way of life—infused
» Wellness Sherpa Program: wellbeing
with empathy, purpose, and vitality.
306 employees, including Pride365
We’ve built a culture where every
Sherpas, were trained as emotional
step toward wellness is a shared win,
first aid providers—fostering
and every individual is empowered to
allyship and peer support across
thrive. Here’s how we bring this to life:
the organisation through this
flagship program.
Comprehensive Health Coverage
Our Mediclaim Policy offers peace Preventive Health Checks
of mind with fast, transparent, and
9,000+ employees aged 40+
compassionate claim support—
participated in Master Health Check–
ensuring employees and their families
ups and TMT tests, saving over ₹2
are protected when it matters most.
crores—underscoring our commitment
to proactive care. Occupational Health and Safety
Mental Wellness
(OHS) Policy
Over 17,000 employees engaged Everyday Wellness Access
In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank
with our counselling ecosystem
Virtual consultations, wellness institutionalised a comprehensive
supported by expert counsellors and
dashboards, and exclusive discounts Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)
our Chief Wellness Officer—fostering
enabled 5,400+ prescriptions and Policy, reinforcing our commitment
resilience and emotional wellbeing.
3,200+ tests—making health support to a safe, healthy, and inclusive
We continue to strengthen our mental
seamless and accessible. workplace. The policy integrates key
wellbeing agenda with a host of
frameworks—including Mediclaim,
additional initiatives.
Financial Wellbeing & Security Wellbeing, Group Term Life Insurance,
» Queer–affirmative professionals
Tailored financial literacy programs,
Employee Care Benevolent Fund, and
delivered nearly 2,000 hours POSH—into a single, holistic approach
loan offerings, and insurance benefits
of support through 1,849 one– to employee care.
empower employees to manage their
on–one and 117 group sessions,
finances with confidence. A cross–functional OHS Working
reaching 1,366 individuals across
Group, comprising HR, Sustainability &
diverse backgrounds. Flexibility & Work–Life Balance
CSR, Ethics, Risk, and CRES, oversees
» Multimodal Therapy, including We encourage work–life balance. implementation and performance via
Talk therapy, CBT, and experiential Through our GIGA (remote work) a dedicated dashboard. This initiative
methods like dance movement framework, parental leave and places safety, health and dignity at the
therapy and psychodrama helped sabbatical policies, employees enjoy heart of our culture.
employees express their emotions. the flexibility to align work with life.
» Group sessions on stress, grief, and
Wellness Webinars
mental fitness were conducted.
Free counselling is also extended 42 health–focused webinars—including
to employees’ family including art therapy, personality doodles, desk The OHS Policy can be accessed
children, partners, and queer yoga and aromatherapy workshops here: https://www.axisbank.com/
families of choice. —offered moments of learning, docs/default–source/quarterly–
healing, and connection across
reports/occupational–health–
the organisation.
and–safety–policy.pdf
140
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For employees
Living our Values, Together
At Axis Bank, we take pride in set up and after 300+ conversations in embedding a value–driven culture
upholding our five core values, which with employees and leaders, 1,400 throughout the organisation via
form the foundation of our business committee man–hours, and 3 in–depth year–round sessions.
strategy – ownership, teamwork, culture workshops with leaders of the
transparency, ethics, customer centricity. Axis Group, a new set of behaviours
These values are pivotal in fostering a were drafted. The articulation is
high–performance culture within the aspirational and emphasises on customer teamwork
centricity
organisation and our goal is that All of Us collective ownership. To embed the
at Axis live these values All the Time. refreshed values, 85 senior leaders—
including the Management Committee—
Since the launch of our Values in 2019,
conducted sessions across 70 cities,
the Bank has consistently embedded ethics ownership
reaching over 4,500 people managers to
them across the employee’s journey. In
ensure last–mile adoption in their teams.
fiscal 2025, we refreshed the framework
to align the value behaviours with Further, we expanded our network
transparency
strategic business priorities. A Steering of Axis Values Realisers (AVRs) from
Committee comprising 12 leaders was 1,332 to 2,339. They play a critical role
Fostering Transparency and Fairness
Transparency—one of our core These are reviewed by an independent financial performance, internal
values—shapes a culture of Apex Committee comprising processes, compliance, people,
openness and trust at Axis Bank. senior leadership. execution, and performance
Through open–door leadership and of subsidiaries.
Competitive Compensation &
strong whistleblower policies, we
Benchmarking The MD & CEO’s variable pay
uphold ethical conduct at every
consists of a performance bonus
level, ensuring a safe, respectful We partner with Aon Consulting Pvt.
and stock–linked incentive.
environment where everyone Ltd. to benchmark salaries against
The variable pay is governed
can thrive. industry standards. Our performance–
by regulatory guidelines, which
linked incentive structures reward
Performance Management include deferral arrangements.
high performers, and we remain
Our performance management system committed to equal pay for equal While part of the performance
is built on objectivity, featuring Key work, eliminating gender pay gaps. bonus is deferred over the
Results Areas (KRAs) and 360–degree subsequent three performance
CEO Compensation
feedback. We ensure bias–free periods, the stock–linked incentive
evaluation through moderation CEO compensation for the Bank’s MD vests over 48 months from the
committees and offer training for & CEO is in line with the guidelines date of the grant. The entire
managers to provide constructive, stated in the RBI circular dated variable pay is subject to Malus/
growth–focused feedback. November 4, 2019. The Bank uses Clawback clauses as per the
a Balanced Scorecard approach to Bank’s policy.
Through RetrACE employees are
assess the CEO’s performance. The
able to revisit their performance
scorecard contains KPIS for the MD &
journey and raise concerns about their
CEO under a range of areas, including
performance for the year.
141
Har raah dil se open
Embedding Sustainability, Ethics, Integrity & ESG
Our people are at the heart of our Whistleblower Policy & Vigil
commitment to ethical banking and 8 Mechanism
responsible growth. By integrating
The Whistleblower channel provides
sustainability, ethics, integrity, and ESG Complaints pending at the
a secure way for employees to escalate
principles into our HR practices, we start of the fiscal year
concerns regarding any
empower employees to drive positive
non–compliance/violations in the
impact within and beyond the Bank. 54
Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics,
We embed equity, inclusion, and which includes non–adherence to laid
Complaints of sexual
responsible leadership across all HR down guidelines of the Bank, conflict
harassment filed during the
strategies—ensuring bias–free hiring, of interest, fraud, misuse of delegated
fiscal year
fair pay, transparent compensation, and powers, misappropriation, any form of
upskilling for ESG–aligned careers. corruption, data leakage, etc.
50
Ethics is non–negotiable at the Bank . To ensure smooth flow and
We uphold fair labour practices with Complaints disposed off management of complaints under
zero tolerance for discrimination. during the fiscal year the policy, a web–based application
Through robust whistleblower policies ‘https://whistleblower.axisbank.
and ethical leadership training, we co.in/index.php/portalComplaints/
12
reinforce a culture where integrity and index’ is available for filing protected
accountability guide every decision. Complaints pending as on disclosures, including anonymous
the end of the fiscal year whistleblower complaints containing
The Bank has implemented a policy
specific and verifiable information,
to prevent sexual harassment of
without fear of revelation of identity.
women at the workplace and is fully 33
The policy contains provisions for
compliant with the Internal Committee
Workshops/awareness protecting whistleblowers from
requirements under the Sexual
programs conducted against any unfair action prejudicial to
Harassment of Women at Workplace
sexual harassment their interests.
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013. A Central Internal Committee 673
(CIC) has been instituted for the
redressal of complaints and to prevent Total whistleblower complaints
sexual harassment. Additionally, four received by the Bank in fiscal 2025
Regional Internal Committees (RIC)
have been constituted to facilitate
investigations at the four regions (north ,
south, east and west) of the Bank and
take appropriate action as per the
said policy.
142
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For employees
Celebrating Excellence across Axis
We foster a culture of recognition and appreciation through a myriad of initiatives, celebrating achievements at
every stage of the employee journey at the Bank. During fiscal 2025, we felicitated 11,000+ employees under
various recognition programs.
Champions Awards, our flagship recognition program,
celebrates employees who exemplify our core values.
This year, from over 24,000 inspiring stories, 86
winners were honoured by the Board, MD & CEO,
and senior leaders at a gala awards night. Through our
quarterly Anchors initiative, we celebrate everyday
excellence—whether it’s going beyond the call of
duty, cross–team collaboration, early–career impact
or mitigating risks. A total of 3,183 employees were
recognised under this program.
OGs, our long service recognition program, honours enduring commitment
and shared growth. This year, we celebrated 51 employees marking 25 years
and above of service at a special luncheon with senior leadership. Additionally,
7,000+ employees were recognised for reaching other tenure–based milestones.
In fiscal 2025, we launched We also celebrated the
Ahead of the Curve, to journeys of 20 retiring
honour people managers employees through
who champion open Retiring with Pride,
communication, empower our program that
teams and nurture careers honours dedication
recognising 595 leaders. and lasting impact.
143
Har raah dil se open
Reimagining Possibilities it empowers employees to self–enrol daily transactions such as attendance,
in tailored courses aligned to their leave management, travel, query
through Technology
growth. Within three months, 97% of resolutions etc. Adi, our virtual
employees actively engaged with the assistant on the app is a cutting–edge
The Bank continues its transformation
platform, reflecting its intuitive design Gen AI–powered assistant to manage
journey to offer seamless and
and impact. HR related employee queries with
intuitive self–service experiences,
precise, first–time right responses
simplifying processes for employees,
and solutions.
managers, and HR professionals as
the technology landscape around To streamline people analytics, we
us evolves. launched the Employee Data Lake–
centralising employee data across the
Over the past year, we have enhanced
lifecycle. It addresses fragmented HR
our systems to achieve Silent HR,
systems, enabling insights into org
improve operational efficiency, and
structure, headcount, attrition, and
strengthen controls and governance
performance. Backed by a unified
in key areas. End–to–end process
framework, it enhances productivity
journeys have been automated to
and supports data–driven decisions
ensure STP is up from 60% to 80%
across the Bank. As we continue to
in fiscal 2025 (Straight through
innovate and integrate advanced
processing, such as laptop allocation
The ‘One Axis’ App successfully technologies, we remain committed
on Day 1).
delivers unified experience to to empowering our employees,
A key milestone this year was the employees across the bank and optimising productivity, and ensuring
launch of the Open Learning Lab— subsidiaries. It hosts all significant sustainable growth for Axis Bank.
our new, unified learning platform. employee and manager self–service
Replacing the previous LMS, journeys, allowing ease of access for
144
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For employees
Affirming our Position as an Employer of Choice
In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank reaffirmed This recognition highlights our In addition, we were honoured with
its position as an employer of choice efforts to create an agile organisation the Jombay – WOW Workplace Award
through multiple recognitions that equipped to thrive in a dynamic 2025, which celebrates organisations
underscore our dedication to building environment, powered by innovation that excel in creating meaningful
a future–ready and people–first and a skilled, resilient workforce. employee experiences and cultivating
organisation. We are proud to be leadership at all levels. This award
We also received the BT–KPMG
certified once again as a Great Place further validates our employee–first
Award for Best Talent and Workforce
to Work, a testament to our enduring philosophy and the impact of our
in Banks in India, which reflects our
focus on fostering a culture of trust, progressive HR practices.
robust talent management strategies
inclusivity, and continuous learning.
and commitment to attracting,
Our future–focused approach was nurturing, and retaining high–potential
further acknowledged by Fortune talent. This recognition reinforces our
India, where we were ranked among belief that investing in people is key to
the Top 5 Future–Ready Workplaces. sustainable growth.
145
Har raah dil se open
FOR INVESTORS S5
Sustainable wealth creation
for shareholders
India stands at the cusp
of a new economic
era, driven by digital
acceleration, inclusive
growth, and rising
aspirations. Aligned with
this momentum, Axis
Bank remains open to
possibilities and poised to
lead. With a clear strategic
focus and a strong
commitment to nation–
building, we leverage
India’s growth trajectory
to deliver long–term value
for our investors.
India is undergoing a structural shift Financial Performance
powered by digital adoption, revival
in manufacturing, and the rise of The Bank has undergone a
Bharat and self–reliant enterprises. significant transformation under
Amid a volatile global landscape, the the GPS (Growth, Profitability and
surge in consumption, increasing Sustainability) strategy launched in
affluence, the growing momentum 2019. Through unwavering execution
Material Issues Linkage among MSMEs, and the growth and strategic investments in our
M2 M15 of sustainable financing, present people, processes, technology, and
long–term prospects for the banking transformative initiatives, the Bank
sector. The Bank is well–positioned has emerged stronger, more resilient,
Capital Linkage to capitalise on these opportunities and fully equipped for the future.
by integrating its strong physical We have not only exceeded our GPS
presence with digital innovation, commitments but have also firmly
broadening access, supporting positioned ourselves as an
emerging sectors, and creating all–weather institution.
SDGs Impacted
sustained value for investors while
contributing meaningfully to India’s
inclusive development.
146
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For investors
Improvements in Key Financial and Operational Metrics since fiscal 2019
Advances Market Share Deposits Market Share Operating Revenue Growth
Lifted the growth
4.9% 5.4% 4.3% 5.0% 8%(1) 16%(2)
momentum
Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2019 2025 2019 2025 2019 2025
Consolidated ROA Consolidated ROE NIM
Improved
0.66% 1.77% 8.58% 16.89% 3.43% 3.98%
profitability
considerably
Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2019 2025 2019 2025 2019 2025
CET 1(3) PCR (4) Net NPA
Strengthened
11.27% 14.67% 62% 75% 2.06% 0.33%
the Bank
significantly
Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2019 2025 2019 2025 2019 2025
(1) CAGR during fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2019 period (2) CAGR for the fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2025 period (3) Common Equity Tier – 1 (4) Excluding technical write–offs
In addition to its traditional strengths, the Bank continues to lead India’s digital payments ecosystem. Our dominant market
presence across the Unified Payment Interface (UPI), National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT) and Immediate Payment
Service (IMPS) platforms highlights our ability to drive innovation and scale in an increasingly digital economy. The Bank also
remains a top player in merchant acquisition and credit cards, reinforcing our customer–centric growth approach.
Digital Payments Leadership Credit Cards
33 23 India’s 4th largest player with
% %
a 14% market share
Market share in UPI Market share in
Payer PSP IMPS volume
30 ~20
% %
Market share in NEFT Terminal market share
volume payments in merchant acquiring business
147
Har raah dil se open
Capital Allocation & The retail secured portfolio’s growth a diverse risk–return profile. In
Risk–adjusted Returns is tailored to meet our RAROC the current deposit–constrained
benchmarks. For example, our environment, we have adopted a
Our portfolio strategy is grounded in mortgage portfolio, including home strategic lens to optimise growth
a disciplined focus on Risk–Adjusted loans, Loans Against Property (LAP), within these three mortgage
Return on Capital (RAROC), ensuring and affordable housing, exhibits product segments.
capital efficiency and sustainable
growth. This approach enables us to
make informed decisions on capital
and liquidity deployment, guided
by three key pillars: Optimal yield
placement, Return potential, and
Predictive loss management.
We remain careful and selective
in the retail unsecured segment,
particularly personal loans and
credit cards. Growth in this segment
is driven by a balanced RAROC–
led approach underpinned by
advanced digital and data analytics
capabilities. Simultaneously, we
continue to strengthen our collections
infrastructure with front–end tech
enablement to enhance efficiency
and outcomes.
Pillars of a Resilient Portfolio
72%
RAROC as the core driver for Proactive portfolio monitoring
capital deployment and liquidity using early warning triggers and
Retail loan book is secured
planning across portfolios policy recalibration
Cautious stance on retail Tailored strategy for retail
unsecured portfolio (personal loans secured portfolio based on
& credit cards) with tech–enabled varied risk–return profiles
collections and risk analytics
148
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For investors
ESG & Sustainable Investing
ESG is a core pillar of the Bank’s We continue to be considered among We have further strengthened
long–term strategy, rooted in our the sector leaders in sustainable our ESG Policy for Lending, which
Purpose Statement: ‘Banking that financing, having raised marquee integrates environmental and social
leads to a more inclusive and equitable issuances since 2016, when we risk assessment into its credit appraisal
economy, thriving community and a launched India’s first certified dollar for Wholesale Banking. Managed by
healthier planet’. We have significantly green bond. a team of environmental and social
scaled up ESG integration across risk professionals, the updated policy
Under the Committee’s oversight,
business operations — embedding mandates deeper scrutiny of proposals
the Bank continues to focus on
environmental responsibility, social in hazardous sectors or with high
strengthening its ESG and
equity, and sound governance into climate–related risks, such as coal
climate–related risk management
decision–making processes. mining, thermal power, and hazardous
capabilities from the enterprise to
chemicals. Notably, key proposals
This includes a strong focus on portfolio to project level. In 2022, the
discussed at the Board’s Committee of
building an inclusive workforce, Bank had reached its first milestone of
Directors now include its environment
creating a future–ready workplace, embedding ESG and climate–related
and social risk assessment.
advancing sustainable finance, risks and opportunities into its annual
and strengthening our governance Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
frameworks to drive long–term value Process (ICAAP). Additionally, we have
creation for all stakeholders. developed climate risk dashboards
covering physical and transition risks
Our Bank was the first Indian bank to
in key portfolios and continue focusing
establish a dedicated ESG Committee
on pertinent training and capacity
of the Board in 2021, reinforcing
building for the Bank.
strategic oversight and ESG
governance. We remain committed to
support India’s transition to a
low–carbon, inclusive economy in
line with the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals
(UN SDGs) and the Paris Agreement.
We have committed to increase the
share of electric vehicle financing in
the overall two–wheeler and four–
wheeler retail loan portfolio and scale
down our exposure to two highly
carbon–intensive sectors, coal and
thermal power.
ESG commitments taken by the Bank
Read more pg. 19
149
Har raah dil se open
Governance & Transparency
The Bank’s Fair Disclosure Code developments, in line with the regulatory » Earnings call transcripts and audio/
provides a clear framework to ensure guidelines under the Fair Disclosure video recordings
timely, transparent, and equitable Code. These disclosures enable investors
» Investor presentations for road shows ,
disclosure of any Unpublished Price and market participants to make
conferences and specific events
Sensitive Information (UPSI) that could informed decisions. The detailed policy,
impact the market value of the Bank’s titled ‘Code of Practices and Procedure » Investor presentations on specific
securities. In accordance with regulatory for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price businesses or subsidiaries of the Bank
requirements, the Bank ensures that such Sensitive Information’, is available on the
The audio/video recording link and
information is first disseminated through Bank’s website.
transcript of quarterly earnings calls
stock exchanges, followed by other
Some of the disclosures available on the are submitted to stock exchanges
public platforms to provide universal and
Bank’s website include: in accordance with the existing
non–selective access.
guidelines outlined in the SEBI LODR
» Quarterly earnings investor
The Bank consistently shares key Regulations, 2015.
presentation, earnings press release
updates, including financial results,
and financial results
corporate announcements, and material
Shareholder Engagement Initiatives
Shareholders are key growth capital Our interactions include one–on–one Effective shareholder engagement is
providers for any Bank and play a and group meetings in physical and crucial to achieving a fair valuation
critical role in supporting the Bank’s virtual formats, such as: and maintaining market trust.
growth and strategic direction. We Open, two–way communication
» Post–quarterly earnings calls,
view them as long–term partners with shareholders ensures clarity
Annual General Meeting and
and ensure continuous engagement on our strategy and performance,
analysts’ meet
through structured, transparent, and supports informed price discovery,
timely communication. » Conferences and non–deal and strengthens long–term
roadshows (both domestic investor confidence.
and international)
Long–term Focus The Bank’s capital raise in fiscal 2021
significantly boosted its CET–1 ratio,
Value Creation
providing a substantial buffer. Even
after absorbing the impact of the
The Bank remains focused on creating
Citibank acquisition in fiscal 2023,
long–term shareholder value by
the Bank has successfully restored
harnessing multiplicative forces by
its capital position as of March
unifying ‘One Axis’, forging strategic
31, 2025. This robust capital base
partnerships, and leveraging
supports growth, enables effective risk
new–age technology to drive business
management, and ensures sustainable
performance. Over the past six years,
profitability, translating into long–term
the Bank has delivered a marked
value creation for shareholders.
improvement in return metrics,
strengthened its balance sheet as well
as its self–sustaining capital structure.
150
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For investors
Bondholders are also an integral Bank has issued debt instruments CET–1 Ratio (Capital Structure)
part of debt capital providers for amounting to ₹3,925 crores in the
Banks. They provide an alternative form of long–term bonds against Peaked 15.40% in fiscal 2021
to non–equity and non–deposit infrastructure and affordable housing
Absorbed 191 bps fiscal 2023
funding options. The bond market in India. Furthermore, Subordinated
for acquisition of CitiBank
helps Banks to raise specific duration– Debt amounting to ₹850 crores and
India consumer business
based instruments and subordinated Infrastructure Bonds totalling ₹5,705
debt capital, which qualifies for Tier crores matured during this period.
Restored to 14.67% in fiscal 2025
II capital. During the fiscal 2025,
Leadership Commitment to solutions. Our customer–centric
HIGHLIGHTS
Investors philosophy is embodied in ‘Sparsh’ — a
program designed to simplify customer
The Bank aims to lead among its peers interactions, drive Net Promoter » Maintained 2nd rank under NPS
by growing market share in Bharat Score (NPS), and boost automation for the second year in a row
Banking, MSME, Mid–corporate, and digitalisation. This has resulted in (Ranked by Kantar Survey)
and Digital Banking while building improved customer satisfaction and » MD & CEO named ‘Banker
one of the India’s most premium increased engagement. of the Year’ by The
Retail Banking franchise. Despite
Financial Express
Our current position of strength is the
global headwinds, our investments
in technology, data analytics, and result of consistent execution rigour » BT–KPMG Best Bank Award
digital capabilities have significantly and investments made in building in the Talent & Workforce
strengthened our competitive position blocks across our people, processes, category
technology, and several multiplicative
over the past six years.
projects over the past six years.
Our mobile banking app ranks among The Bank continues to be differentiated
the highest globally, underscoring our and distinctive in our journey towards
digital–first strategy and leadership in building an all–weather institution.
seamless, customer–centric payment
Shareholder Wealth Creation
The Bank has consistently delivered strong returns, outperforming broader indices over the medium term, reflecting its strateg ic
focus on sustainable growth and value creation. Complementing this is the Dividend Distribution Policy, which rewards investo rs
while ensuring sufficient capital is retained for future expansion. In alignment with regulatory guidelines, the policy targets a
minimum dividend payout of 25% of the equity share’s face value from the net profit earned during the year, thus maintaining a
balance between income distribution and reinvestment–led growth .
CAGR Returns (Axis Bank vs. Indices) as of March 31, 2025
Axis Bank Nifty 50 Bank Nifty
5 year 24% 5 year 22% 5 year 22%
3 year 13% 3 year 10% 3 year 12%
1 year 5% 1 year 5% 1 year 9%
Read more about our Dividend Distribution Policy :
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/quarterly-reports/dividend-distribution-policy-of-the-bank.pdf
151
Har raah dil se open
FOR COMMUNITIES S5
Together for an
inclusive future
Empowering communities
is at the core of our
purpose. We champion
collective progress through A strong institutional framework objectives. In fiscal 2025, our
governs our CSR programs, which are initiatives spanned geographies and
the promotion of quality
overseen by the CSR Committee of themes – from border villages to
education, sustainable
the Board and aligned with Section urban slums, from natural resource
livelihoods, access to 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. We management to cancer care, from
healthcare, environmental also draw inspiration from the United grassroots sports to academic
Nations’ Sustainable Development research. Behind every milestone
stewardship, and financial
Goals, ensuring our work contributes lies a story of collaboration, courage,
inclusion. We remain
to broader global development and change.
passionately committed
to creating resilient
An Integrated Approach to CSR
communities, unlocking
human potential, and
shaping a more equitable
Financial Literacy
and inclusive India. Lives and Livelihoods
& Inclusion
Creating income
Empowering citizens
security
with the knowledge
through sustainable,
and tools to
community–
participate in India’s
Material Issues Linkage owned ecosystems
financial system
M9 M10
Our Core
Capital Impacted Focus
Areas
Other Focus
SDGs Impacted Areas: Environmental Education
Sustainability, Humanitarian & Transforming
Relief, Healthcare and Sports access and quality
A comprehensive of primary and
approach to wellbeing higher education
and community across India
resilience
152
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For communities
The Sustainable Implemented by Axis Bank Foundation nutrition for rural families. The health
in partnership with grassroots NGOs and nutrition focus of the program
Livelihood Program
and community institutions, SLP is adopts a life cycle approach. It works
designed to strengthen livelihoods with lactating mothers, young children
Lives and livelihoods in rural India
through a multi-dimensional approach and adolescents, guiding and nudging
are deeply intertwined with natural
fostering a basket of livelihood them to improve their health seeking
ecosystems – land, water, and forests.
opportunities. Multiple sources of behaviour and foster linkages with
It forms the bedrock of wellbeing
income are promoted and stabilised the public health systems. Improved
for millions of our citizens. Shrinking
by improving skills, introducing health not only helps in reducing wage,
landholdings, water insecurity, dated
better farming methods, promotion but it also enhances the quality of life.
practices, and weak market linkages
of horticulture, livestock rearing,
strain rural incomes, particularly for This integrated approach is helping
developing micro enterprises, enabling
those that have to rely on a single rural communities to become more
access to finance and direct market
source of income. self–reliant, ecologically aware, and
connects. The underlying ecological
economically secure. SLP addresses
Launched in 2011, our flagship initiative challenges are addressed through
local and contextual vulnerability
– The Sustainable Livelihood Program active community ownership and
into opportunity, ensuring that when
(SLP) addresses these challenges by participation in local governance.
livelihoods are secured, families
creating diverse sources of income
Diversified income sources lead and communities can thrive with
and fostering reliance in several ways
to more stable cash flows through confidence and dignity.
to ensure longer term economic
the year. To an extent, local stable
and ecological sustainability. SLP
incomes reduce distress migration.
prioritises support to small and marginal
To enhance overall wellbeing SLP
farmers, landless families, artisans,
focusses on improving health and
entrepreneurs, especially youth and
People with Disabilities (PWDs).
2.05
million
Rural families across
23,000+ villages, across 32
States/Union Territories
positively impacted
(cumulatively) as of
March 31, 2025.
This includes:
» 1.95 million rural families
» 92,794 youth trained in
vocational skills which
included 25,045 PWDs.
153
Har raah dil se open
Phases of the Sustainable Livelihood Program
2011 – 2018 | Mission1Million: Key Highlights: 2025–2031 | Mission4Million:
Building the Foundation » Diverse income streams have Expanding the Sphere of Influence
The journey began with a vision strengthened food and nutrition Looking ahead, Mission 4 Million
to support security while reducing the need will support an additional 2 million
1 million individuals through for distress migration rural families, with a sharper
improved access to water, » Communities now demonstrate focus on inclusive growth and
enhanced agricultural productivity greater self–reliance, decision climate resilience.
opportunities. It expanded farm and making power, and access to skills The program will expand to:
non–farm livelihood options, including and information » Enable higher–income
horticulture, agroforestry, floriculture
» Major thrust areas: rural opportunities across
and livestock, These efforts engaged
crafts, fisheries, livestock,
− Community led collectives,
multiple family members and created
microenterprises and
farmer producer groups and
year–round income that helped
tribal economies.
agri-entrepreneurs
families meet essential needs – food,
education and medical expenses – − Watershed management, solar » Promote climate–conscious
with dignity. powered irrigation, livestock livelihood models backed by
innovative financing
and Non–Timber Forest
Key highlights:
A strong foundation and funding Produce » Invest in capacity building,
approach emerged to support (NTFP) value chains local leadership and long–term
livelihoods in rural India − Enterprise development community ownership
training for youth, artisans, and » Deepen efforts in healthcare
2019–2025 | Mission2Million: people with disabilities access, skilling and
Deepening and Scaling Impact
economic inclusion for the
− Healthcare and nutrition
Mission 2 Million, completed in 2025, most marginalised.
as enablers of economic
has supported 2 Million rural families
participation Every milestone reaffirms a
by scaling targeted interventions
simple truth: when rural families
through a comprehensive approach − Geographic expansion across
are empowered to shape their
that used philanthropic capital as a coastal, central, Himalayan and
development goals.
catalyst to strengthen livelihoods Northeastern belts
through models that are led and
owned by communities themselves.
FISCAL 2025 HIGHLIGHTS
387,467
Households have been positively
impacted, of which
» 372,881 were rural families
» 14,586 youth trained in vocational
Award & Recognition skills, including 3,750 PWDs
The Sustainable Livelihood Program won the first prize at FICCI’s
Sustainable Agriculture Awards 2024 for the work on Natural
Resource Management and Climate Resilient Agriculture in Jharkhand,
Telangana and Maharashtra that enhanced the ability of communities
to generate income by building resilient livelihoods.
154
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For communities
Case Study
Highlighting Blending Tradition with and declining water availability,
Technology: How Innovation these challenges have become
the Impact of Revitalised Farming for a family more complex.
in Telangana
the Sustainable In Dhamargidda, a district in
When technology meets traditional Telangana, farmers faced these
Livelihood agricultural practices, it creates struggles firsthand. One such
a powerful blend of wisdom and farmer, Ravindra Mallesh (name
Program
innovation. In India, many farming changed to protect privacy),
communities rely on techniques that relied on traditional irrigation
have been passed down through for his red soil land. His method
generations. However, with climate required intensive manual labour,
change, increasing water demand, exhausting both him and his wife.
People Progress Pathway
Ravindra Mallesh, a hardworking The introduction of sprinkler The Sustainable Livelihood Program
farmer, dedicated long hours irrigation brought significant changes played a crucial role in enabling
to his land. His wife shared his for Ravindra and his family. The this transformation. Through
burden, spending endless days system ensured uniform water its initiatives, Ravindra received
watering fields by hand. Their distribution, reduced soil erosion, training in modern irrigation
young son, instead of focusing on and improved crop health. It also practices, along with access to
his education, was often pulled into cut labour and input costs, allowing subsidies and technical support.
farm labour. The entire family felt the couple to pursue other income Continuous guidance helped him
the strain—physically, financially, sources and enabling their son to transition smoothly and maintain
and emotionally. return to school. The result was a the system effectively. The ongoing
more stable and productive farm. training and constant learning
initiatives under the program
ensured that farmers could address
any operational challenges and
maximise the benefits of their new
irrigation systems.
The adoption of efficient irrigation
not only improved Ravindra’s crop
yields and financial stability but
also enhanced his family’s overall
wellbeing. Ravindra’s story is a
clear example of how integrating
simple technology with traditional
farming, supported by the right
proper training and resources, can
transform livelihoods and build
resilient rural communities.
155
Har raah dil se open
Education–Learning Axis DilSe® – Taking Education
to the Last Mile Milestones Achieved
for Life
Launched in 2017, Axis DilSe® is » 439 out–of–school children
We view education as a right and a our flagship program committed to were enrolled in schools
pathway to opportunity, dignity, and transforming education in some of under the program
empowerment, especially for those India’s most remote and underserved
in India’s remotest and underserved regions. What began with supporting » 10,700+ students are reached
regions. Our education initiatives over 100 government schools in through learning initiatives
focus on inclusive, equitable, Ladakh has grown into a nationwide in the block
and quality learning, supporting initiative reaching the borderlands of
foundational education in remote the Northeast and the deep interiors Axis DilSe® in Manipur in partnership
border villages to cutting–edge of central and eastern India. Rooted with Sunbird Trust
research and innovation in higher in our dil se open philosophy, the
The Bank has partnered with Sunbird
academic institutions. program collaborates with grassroots
Trust to provide quality education to
organisations to strengthen school
underprivileged tribal students and
infrastructure, empower teachers, and
FISCAL 2025 HIGHLIGHTS expand school infrastructure at Ivzon
enhance learning outcomes. Through
Friendship School in Churachandpur
Axis DilSe®, we aim to make quality
district, Manipur. Amidst the civil
7,400 education accessible and meaningful
+ unrest in Manipur, the Bank supported
for children living in isolated and often
Schools reached relief camps run by our partner for
challenging geographies.
those displaced due to the strife.
Axis DilSe® Centre of Excellence
60,000
+ in partnership with Assam Rifles
Milestones Achieved
Teachers reached across and NIEDO
multiple States through » 425 students are enrolled in
The Bank collaborates with Assam
various programs the school.
Rifles and the National Integrity
and Educational Development » Lyzon Friendship School
150 Organisation (NIEDO) to support was provisionally recognised
+
underprivileged students in Northeast for Class 10 by the Board
Schools in 4 Northeastern
India with specialised residential of Secondary Education,
States where Bank is present
training for competitive exams like Manipur – the only private
NEET and JEE. Locations include school to get this status in the
7,70,000 Chiswema, Ukhrul, Jairampur, entire district.
+
Zokhawasar, Teliamura, and Ghaspani.
Children benefitted
Axis DilSe® Odapada Block Axis DilSe® in Sikkim in partnership
Transformation Program in partnership with 17,000 ft Foundation
Axis Bank Centre for Mathematics with Tata Steel Foundation The Bank is supporting 50 government
& Computing at Indian Institute of The Bank collaborates with the Tata Steel primary schools across Sikkim to
enhance their learning infrastructure
Science (IISC) Bangalore Foundation for a block transformation
and resources with the help of the
program initiated in the Odapada block
The Axis Bank Centre for Mathematics 17,000 ft Foundation.
of Dhenkanal district, Odisha. The
& Computing at the Indian Institute
objective is to bring back all out–of–
of Science, Bangalore is a flagship
Milestones Achieved
school children in the block into the
initiative to strengthen India’s higher
education system. Additionally, the
education and research ecosystem. » 2,100+ children benefitted
program aims to provide foundationa l
Construction of a dedicated six-story across 50 schools
literacy and learning enhancement
building is in progress. In addition, » Digi–Lab, library, and
programs to school–going children and
the centre supported 600+ students playground provided
raise awareness among youth, SHGs and
and 8 professors through its various » Centralised training for all
the community on the sustainability of
activities. Centre output included 26 headmasters conducted
the interventions.
conference papers and 54 journal
publications in fiscal 2025.
156
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For communities
Our Approach to Strengthening the Education Ecosystem
School and Teacher Transformation Systemic Capacity Building » In partnership with Ashoka University,
» Launched a School Transformation » Developed teacher competencies over 50 women students enrolled
in STEM disciplines were awarded
Program in Shi Yomi, Arunachal in Kendriya Vidyalaya and state
scholarship. Additionally, the Bank
Pradesh, and established a Teacher schools in collaboration with Sri
supported 25 innovative research
Training Academy in partnership Aurobindo Society, aligning with
projects led by faculties, spanning
with Sunbird Trust the National Education Policy
both applied and fundamental
(NEP) 2020
» Scaled Block Transformation research domains
Program to 6 new blocks in Odisha » Partnered with Khan Academy
and Jharkhand in collaboration India to introduce tech–enabled CM Rise Teacher Professional
with the Tata Steel Foundation, Maths and Science learning in Development Program
facilitating learning for over Odisha, reaching over 90,000 » In collaboration with Peepul, the
35,000 students students and over 4,000 teachers Bank is supporting the CM Rise
in government schools Teacher Professional Development
» Collaborated with Mantra Social
Program in Madhya Pradesh.
Services to improve educational Higher Education & Innovation
Covering all 52 districts, the
outcomes by catalyzing collective » Expanded partnership with program is designed to train over
action in five districts across Plaksha University to construct 1.2 lakh teachers by 2028.
Chhattisgarh, Odisha and a FutureTech building, institute
Jharkhand, driving systemic a faculty chair, and support PhD
improvements in the education and postdoctoral fellowships, thus
sector. Reaching over 6,600+ nurturing India’s future innovators
children and 4000+ schools and researchers
Financial Literacy & Inclusion
Financial exclusion in India is largely This multi–module program has This initiative supports:
a result of the lack of access to and helped beneficiaries:
» Field–based research and publications
awareness about formal financing
» Set and track financial goals
channels. Our community–led » Workshops and academic dialogue
programs combine local knowledge, » Understand safe borrowing and on national and global platforms
on–ground partnerships, and savings practices
» Evidence–based recommendations
structured training to inform and
» Access government welfare for inclusive financial policies
educate communities about financial
schemes and digital tools
services – from savings and credit
to insurance and pensions. Through The initiative aims to empower FISCAL 2025 HIGHLIGHTS
grassroots training in digital banking, 7 lakh individuals with nuances of
savings, insurance, and pension financial literacy and eventually ensure 1.25
lakhs+
schemes, as well as knowledge their inclusion in the formal financial
building, we help individuals set ecosystem. Since fiscal 2024, the Women empowered
financial goals, manage budgets, and Bank has engaged with ~3.2 lakhs through financial literacy
build economic resilience. participants across 50 blocks, 14 sessions
districts and 5 States driving greater
SCRIPT: A Holistic Financial
financial awareness and inclusion. 14
Education Model
Chair for Financial Inclusion at IRMA
In partnership with the Kalanjiam Districts in 5 states covered
Foundation, we have rolled out the We have established the Axis Bank for awareness building
SCRIPT model — Savings, Credit, Chair on Financial Inclusion at the
Remittances/Payments, Investments/ Institute of Rural Management Anand
Insurance, Pension/Transactions to drive research and influence public
(including digital banking). policy on financial inclusion.
157
Har raah dil se open
Other Focus Areas
Our community–centric efforts span multiple social and environmental impact dimensions – from protecting nature and
providing accessible healthcare to ensuring rapid humanitarian responses and fostering talent through sports. Each of
these initiatives resonates deeply with our philosophy of ‘Har raah dil se open’, which translates to inclusive action for
holistic community development.
Environmental Sustainability – Nurturing a Greener Tomorrow Healthcare & Nutrition – Strengthening Access, Improving Lives
Recognising the critical role of the environment in supporting Good health is foundational to thriving communities. Acknowledging
livelihoods and enhancing quality of life, the Bank is deeply India’s growing healthcare challenges, the Bank has intensified it s
committed to ecological conservation and climate resilience . focus on healthcare and nutrition interventions significantly.
Our flagship Mission 2 Million Trees aims to create a substantia l
Our strategic collaboration with the National Cancer Grid (NCG )
green cover across India by 2027. As of March 2025, the
through the Tata Memorial Centre is transforming cancer care across
bank through its CSR partners has planted ~3.27 million trees
the nation. With an investment of ₹100 crores over five years, th is
(including the 2 million target and other plantations, combined ).
partnership aims to establish robust telehealth systems, implement
The Bank is further expanding its activities related to habita t
cutting–edge Electronic Medical Records (EMRs), create India’s firs t
restoration. As part of this initiative, the Bank has set a targe t
National Tumour Biobank, and provide targeted patient engagemen t
of planting ~8 million trees by 2030 (including all earlie r
solutions. Concurrently, our partnership with the Indian Cance r
plantations).
Society emphasises preventive care, offering widespread screening
Our ambitious projects include the restoration of critica l camps targeting oral, cervical, and breast cancers, reaching ove r
mangrove habitats in Tamil Nadu, extensive agroforestry and 8 lakh individuals.
forest regeneration programs in Assam and Madhya Pradesh, a s
Additionally, we support the establishment of a pioneering
well as initiatives aimed at mitigating human–wildlife conflicts
Paediatrics Specialty Centre at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc )
in Karnataka. In addition, the Miyawaki Urban Forest in Nav i
in Bengaluru, which will significantly enhance paediatric healthcare
Mumbai is a vibrant example of integrating biodiversity within
infrastructure and capabilities for advanced medical research ,
cityscapes, enhancing both ecological health and the wellbeing
setting new benchmarks for care and scientific discovery.
of local communities. These collective efforts form part of ou r
overarching ESG commitments, aligning closely with nationa l
climate goals.
Humanitarian Relief – Responding Swiftly, Sports – Empowering Champions, Inspiring Communities
Restoring Dignity This year marks the expansion of the Bank’s commitment to
We recognise our responsibility to respond promptly during community upliftment through sports. We see sports as a powerfu l
humanitarian crises. Throughout the year, the Bank actively means of community cohesion, character development, and inclusion.
extended support to communities severely impacted by
We have partnered with Olympic Gold Quest to empower 224
natural calamities and socio–political conflicts.
promising athletes and para athletes across 10 Olympic and 8
In Assam’s Majuli district, we partnered with Ayang Trus t Paralympic disciplines, supporting them in realising their potential on
and Balipara Foundation to ensure effective relief measures the global stage. In addition, our partnership with the Inspire Institut e
following the devastating floods. In response to severe of Sports has led to the launch of the ‘Axis Bank Judo Development
ethnic conflicts in Manipur, our alliance with Sunbird Trus t Program’. The program develops judo talent across India, with a specia l
provided critical relief by providing shelters and essentia l focus on talent in Manipur, considering the state being a judo hot be d
support systems for displaced families. Furthermore, we in India. The program integrated a total of 157 athletes. 104 athletes
expanded our humanitarian assistance in Karnataka’s in Manipur were provided with training sessions at the Judo Academy
Kodagu district, contributing to the reconstruction o f in Manipur, in partnership with the Manipur Judo Association (MJA ),
sustainable housing for flood–affected families. Our while 53 female judokas were awarded full scholarships to study an d
commitment during these times of distress ensures train at the state–of–the–art IIS campus in Vijayanagar, Karnataka fo r
immediate relief, coupled with initiatives that foster the high–performance program.
long–term recovery and community rebuilding. The athletes also received sports science support from the IIS
Vijayanagar central sports science team. These efforts not only
Through our humanitarian relief efforts, we have positively
foster athletic excellence but also create inspiring role models, drivin g
impacted 7,278 households.
broader community participation and enthusiasm for sports.
158
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For communities
Corporate Citizenship Initiatives
Abhisaran 2025 Mission2Million and launch of sessions on ‘Theory of Change’, and
Mission4Million. Helmed by Axis Bank ‘Effective Communication offered
Abhisaran is a multi–stakeholder
Foundation, Mission4Million is set to opportunity to strengthen the delivery
engagement forum where knowledge
expand SLP’s geographical reach to of purpose and sessions on Systems
is shared, ideas turn to action and
support an additional 2 million rural Thinking for Livelihoods, Value Chains
partnerships evolve. Abhisaran 2025,
households. It would also deepen for Equity, Health & Nutrition in
was hosted over 2 days to celebrate
the Bank’s commitment to fostering Livelihoods, Rural Entrepreneurship,
the ‘One Axis’ CSR approach and
resilience amongst rural communities, Water Governance and Youth &
to foster collaboration amongst all
especially in the wake of changing Employability saw partners sharing
partners. The gathering brought
climate and meaningfully empower of best practices, challenges and
together senior bank officials, board
youth by creating opportunities to opportunities for collaborative action
members of Axis Bank, trustees of
shape their lives and livelihoods. at the grassroots.
Axis Bank Foundation (ABF), senior
officials and Board members of Axis The second day had several curated Abhisaran 2025 underscored the
Subsidiaries and 70+ NGO partners sessions. Plenary session on collaborative spirit between Axis Bank,
from across India. Navigating Transition: Pathways Axis Bank Foundation and its diverse
towards a shared purpose set network of partners.
Abhisaran 2025, marked an important
the tone for the day, highlighting
milestone for the Sustainable
the opportunities to transit with
Livelihood Program(SLP) - successful
intentional and shared vision. Further,
completion of
Axis Cares
Axis Cares, our flagship
employee engagement
platform to empower Axisians
and help foster their personal
social responsibility. Axis Cares
offers the opportunity to
contribute financial resources,
time through volunteering
towards causes close to
their hearts. Over the years,
Axisians have supported
several causes such as
education for children, care for
nature and wildlife, support
to senior citizens, protecting
our cultural heritage, promote
sports and support relief
work during disasters. They
have spent time mentoring
and coaching young aspirants
preparing to join the formal
workforce. Axis Cares
symbolises shared purpose of
personal social responsibility
– Dilse
159
Har raah dil se open
FOR PARTNERS – GOVERNMENT S4 S5
Serving the nation
with pride
Nation–building is both
a responsibility and
a privilege. As India
strides ahead on its
journey of growth and
transformation, Axis Bank
remains a committed
partner, strengthening
government ecosystems,
supporting public
infrastructure, and
expanding the reach of
essential services to every
Partnering with the Government
corner of the country.
The Bank has consistently been a taxes (Central Board of Direct
trusted banking partner for India’s Taxes or CBDT and Goods and
government sector, contributing Services Tax or GST), employee
to the enhancement of public welfare contributions (Employees’
finance, driving transparency, Provident Fund Organisation
and enabling seamless citizen or EPFO and Employees’ State
services nationwide. Key ministries, Insurance Corporation or ESIC), and
government departments, and public State Taxes across 15 States and
institutions, such as the Ministry Union Territories. We also serve as
Material Issues Linkage
of Urban Development, Housing the sole trustee bank appointed by
M9 M10 and Urban Affairs, the Office of the the Pension Fund Regulatory and
Controller General of Accounts, Development Authority (PFRDA)
and the Institute of Government for managing the National Pension
Capital Linkage Accounts and Finance under the System (NPS).
Ministry of Finance, have accredited
Ranked among the top performers
the Bank. Recently, we received our
in the Public Financial Management
4th accreditation from the Ministry
System (PFMS) and actively
of External Affairs for the Passport
SDGs Impacted contributing to the Government
Seva Program.
e–Marketplace (GeM), we
Our banking infrastructure consistently deliver robust, secure,
supports collection for Central and citizen–centric digital solutions.
160
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For partners – Government
Enabling Smart We have partnered with 27 Smart
Varanasi Disaster Management:
Cities to implement customised digital
Governance and Urban Drone–based aerial solutions to
governance solutions. Some of the few
strengthen disaster response and
Transformation associations are the following:
urban planning
As a strategic partner to India’s
Punjab m–SEWA: Integrated
ambitious Smart City Mission,
digital services platform enabling
the Bank collaborates closely Jharkhand Jal Chajan Yojana:
efficient citizen services across
with Municipal Bodies, City A digital door–numbering
148 ULBs
Administrations, and State solution, enhancing service
Governments to deliver tailored delivery, responsiveness, and
banking solutions that meet local Varanasi Nagar Nigam: QR community inclusion
needs. The Bank maintains strategic code–based doorstep property
relationships with over half of tax solution covering over
India’s Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to 3 lakhs homes
strengthen urban governance. 27
Our solutions digitise and streamline
Rewa Municipal Corporation: An Smart Cities where Axis Bank
municipal operations, ensuring
app–based platform that activates delivers services to assist the
seamless payment and collection
digital certifications, handles civic administration
processes that enhance transparency
grievances, manages revenue, and
and civic engagement. We help cities
provides social security services
become more responsive, sustainable,
and inclusive by embedding
digital technology into public
service delivery.
161
Har raah dil se open
Transforming Agriculture
KEY ENGAGEMENTS IN FISCAL 2025
through Digi–culture
» Uttar Pradesh Upbhokta Sahakari Sangh
We are deeply invested in empowering
this critical sector through trusted, » Food & Civil Supplies Corporation – in West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh,
transparent, and tech–driven solutions Tamil Nadu
that simplify the lives of farmers
» Bihar State Vegetable Processing & Marketing Cooperative Federation
and agri–value chain stakeholders.
Our flagship digital platform for e– » Andhra Pradesh State Farmers’ eVikraya Corporation
procurement enables secure and
» Himachal Pradesh State Agriculture Marketing Board
timely payments to farmers against
government purchases. Designed to
handle large–scale disbursements
with precision, the platform offers
real–time reconciliation, bulk transfer
capabilities, and a fully automated
interface that eliminates delays,
reduces fraud, and builds trust.
Enabling Direct Benefit Transfers
(DBT) ensures every rupee reaches
the right hands–on time. Our
agricultural engagement extends
across key states, where we have
partnered with procurement agencies
and cooperative bodies to roll out
scalable and impactful solutions.
Health & Education
We support government institutions including the Ayushman Bharat Health
with banking solutions and intelligent, Infrastructure Mission in Gujarat,
tech–enabled platforms that which helps build future–ready and
improve operational efficiency and inclusive health systems.
citizen access.
Our support to the education sector
In the healthcare ecosystem, we have includes digitised fee collection
introduced AI–based face recognition platforms for state education boards
and integrated HRMS software for and institutions, making transactions
the Health Department of Bihar, secure, seamless, and accessible.
addressing chronic challenges like Whether it is fee automation,
medical personnel absenteeism. This reporting dashboards, or customised
smart solution has been replicated in banking products, we serve as a
Puducherry and Dadra & Nagar Haveli reliable digital partner to schools,
under the National Health Mission. colleges, and universities such as the
We are also proud to be associated Directorate of Education, Goa.
with transformative health initiatives,
162
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For partners – Government
Driving Digital Mobility
Infrastructure
We partner with urban authorities to
make vehicular movement frictionless,
efficient, and future–ready.
We pioneered India’s first
AI+FASTag–enabled smart parking
system in collaboration with the
Guwahati Metropolitan Development
Authority. This fully automated
solution eliminates manual ticketing,
introduces contactless entry and
exit, and enhances overall user
convenience, setting a new benchmark
for urban mobility.
In Delhi, we were selected as the sole
acquiring bank for Digital Stand Fee
India’s first RFID–FASTag–enabled
Collection at Inter–State Bus Terminals
(ISBTs), using RFID–based FASTag AI+FASTag smart stand fee and parking
technology. This initiative streamlines
parking system collection
the collection of parking and entry
fees, reduces congestion, enhances Launched in Guwahati Rolled out at Delhi ISBTs
transparency, and promotes cashless
transit ecosystems.
Direct Benefit Transfer
DBT SERVICES PROVIDED IN
FISCAL 2025
(DBT) Initiatives
The Bank is playing a vital role in » Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule
strengthening India’s DBT ecosystem, Bal–Sangopan Yojana –
bridging the gap between government Women & Child Development
welfare schemes and citizens. We Department, Maharashtra
ensure government funds reach
the rightful beneficiaries promptly » Chief Minister’s Atmanirbhar
and transparently. Asom Abhijan – Assam
Our DBT platforms support a wide » Department of Adi Dravidar
range of state and centrally sponsored and Tribal Welfare –
schemes, including women’s and Tamil Nadu
child development, tribal welfare, » AMRUT (Atal Mission for
and urban transformation missions.
Rejuvenation and Urban
With seamless integration, real–time
Transformation)
validations, and direct account credit,
we eliminate leakages and bring » Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM)
dignity to social assistance.
163
Har raah dil se open
FOR THE ENVIRONMENT S5 S6
Driving environmental impact through
action and accountability
At Axis Bank, we view
environmental stewardship
as an integral to our
operations, growth, and
creation of long–term
value. From lowering
our carbon footprint
to conserving natural
resources and enabling As a financial institution, our To proactively reduce this
sustainable finance, we environmental footprint primarily footprint, we are leveraging
stems from energy consumption in digital transformation, embedding
embed responsibility
our branches and offices, the use industry–leading practices,
into every aspect of our
of diesel generators, and the use of and strategically investing in
business. Our ESG–aligned paper in banking documentation. green technologies.
lending fuels positive
transformation across
ESG HIGHLIGHTS FISCAL 2025
sectors vital to India’s
green transition. ₹22,160 4
crores
Green lending portfolio Large offices fully powered
by renewable energy
Material Issues Linkage 447
~8.78
M8 M12 %
ESG–assessed proposals via
Environmental and Social Due Energy used is drawn from
Capital Linkage Diligence (ESDD) renewable sources
~3.27
million
Saplings planted under CSR
SDGs Impacted initiatives (including target of
2 million tree plantations,
Miyawaki plantations and other
tree plantation programs)
164
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For the environment
Energy & Emissions
Approach to Decarbonising our Operations
Our decarbonisation pathway is aligned sustainability standards, we have set leaks (ACs) in our major offices. For
with global benchmarks, such as the a focused target of 3.5% reduction in Scope 2 emissions, we review monthly
Science–Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). emission intensity per full–time employee electricity consumption data, converting
We focus on effectively managing (FTE) by the end of fiscal 2027, with fisca l expenditures to usage based on average
and reducing emissions across our 2023 as the baseline. city tariffs. Additionally, we address
direct operations (Scope 1), purchased specific Scope 3 emissions, such as those
We closely monitor Scope 1 emissions
electricity (Scope 2), and select indirect from air travel, local transport, paper use,
from diesel use by tracking monthly
activities (Scope 3). In alignment with and employee commute.
diesel expenditures and refrigerant
India’s climate ambitions and globa l
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Initiatives
We proactively invest in renewable energy and advanced energy management technologies to drive efficiency
across our operations:
Solar Energy Initiatives Centralised Energy
Management System
» Commissioned a 2 MW
solar power plant in Solapur, » Implemented CEMS across
significantly reducing our major branches and offices
carbon emissions since fiscal 2015
» Procured ~1 MW of solar » Enabled remote monitoring
energy annually (3.50 lakhs and control of air conditioning
units) through a Power Purchase and lighting, resulting
Agreement (PPA) for our in substantial energy
Bengaluru Data Centre consumption reduction
while maintaining optimal
» Ensured that our top three
ambient conditions
offices — Axis House, Mumbai;
MIDC, Andheri; and The Ruby,
Dadar — operate entirely on
100% renewable energy
165
Har raah dil se open
Operational Energy Efficiency Green Data Centres (Bengaluru)
» Maintained unity power factor through Automatic » Adopted advanced cooling technologies and thermal
Power Factor Correction (APFC) panels at significan t management strategies, including air–cooled chillers
locations, including Axis House in Mumbai and Axis and thermal insulation
House in Noida
» Equipped server racks with temperature and humidity
» All branches and offices equipped with LED systems , sensors integrated with Building Management Systems
resulting in a significant reduction in energy use (BMS)
» Electrical vehicle charging facilities are available a t » Implemented highly efficient modular UPS systems ,
large buildings, including Axis House in Mumbai, achieving operational efficiency of over 97%
MIDC Andheri, and Axis House in Noida
» Installed motion–sensor LED lighting and
» Installed star–rated, energy–efficient air conditioners , environmentally friendly materials to optimise energy
replacing outdated units usage and enhance sustainability
» Motion sensors at strategic locations to enhance » Pursuing green building certification to further solidify
energy conservation our commitment to sustainable operations
MEASURABLE IMPACT IN FISCAL 2025
2,222 3.87 11,347.37
tCO e million unit (kWh) tCO e
2 2
Emissions avoided annually Annual savings due to CEMS Scope 1 Emissions
because of the Solapur Solar and other energy efficiency
140,344.99
Power Plant interventions tCO e
2
7,321 ~1,277 Scope 2 Emissions
tCO e tCO e
2 2
Emissions avoided as a result Emissions avoided by not 41,566.90
tCO e
of renewable energy used at printing the papers (digital 2
Scope 3 Emissions
the Bengaluru Data Centre Banking interventions)
Water Conservation We pursue targeted actions to
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN
conserve and responsibly manage
FISCAL 2025
We actively minimise our water water usage across our facilities, such
consumption through efficient as the following:
~5.5
management, recycling and KL
» Implemented a closed–loop water
responsible usage. Through diligent
system at our Bengaluru Data Rainwater harvested annually
actions such as rainwater harvesting
Centre to eliminate water usage in at Axis House Mumbai
and innovative recycling solutions, we
cooling operations
continually strive to reduce our water
~275
footprint, positively impacting our » Installed rainwater harvesting KL
communities and the environment. infrastructure at our corporate
Rainwater harvested annually
office, Axis House, Mumbai
at Bengaluru Data Centre
» Installed sensor–based washbasins,
aerators, and bio–blocks at select
offices to reduce wastage
166
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For the environment
Responsible Waste » Implemented centralised systems Habitat Restoration
at Axis House, Mumbai and select
Management Activities
major offices across India to
segregate and recycle dry waste
We proactively adopt responsible In 2021, as a part of the Bank’s ESG
into usable stationery
waste management practices, driven commitments, the Bank had taken an
by our commitment to promoting » Collaborations with certified ambitious target of planting 2 million
waste segregation, recycling vendors for safe disposal of trees by fiscal 2026. As of March
initiatives, and digital solutions electronic waste from branches 2025, through its CSR initiative, the
across our operations. We diligently and offices nationwide Bank has completed planting ~2.02
reduce our environmental impact by million trees across six locations in
consistently diverting waste from
» Leveraged digital banking
India. Since 2023, the Bank has started
initiatives (digital account opening,
landfills and supporting the circular augmenting its plantation target.
e–statements, and e–welcome
use of resources. We have taken the As of March 2025, the Bank, through
kits) to significantly reduce
following measures: its CSR partners, has planted
paper consumption
~3.27 million trees (including the
2 million target and other plantations.
The Bank is further expanding its
activities related to habitat restoration.
As part of this initiative, the Bank
has set a target of planting ~8 million
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN FISCAL 2025
trees by 2030 (in continuation of
our Mission 2 Million trees that we
~220.60 34.48
Metric Tons Metric Tons achieved in fiscal 2025).
Of dry waste (includes paper, Of battery waste recycled
Plastic, metal & glass) recycled (through authorised vendors) ~3.27
million
in select offices (through in select offices
Total trees planted
authorised vendors)
(including target of
~15
million 2 million tree
396.89
Metric Tons plantations, Miyawaki
Sheets of paper saved annually
plantations
Of e-waste recycled PAN–India as a result of various digital
and other tree
(through authorised recyclers) banking initiatives
plantation
programs)
Footnotes
1. All emission calculations, including intensity assessments, energy calculations with intensity considerations, water consumption, and waste estimations,
encompass solely Axis Bank’s operations within India. These calculations exclude any subsidiaries.
2. The reporting boundary for waste management is limited to 12 offices for Paper, 6 offices for Plastic, 4 offices for Metal, 5 offices for Batteries, 11 offices
for organic waste, 2 offices for C&D Waste and E–waste reported for PAN–India basis.
3. Scope 1 – Diesel related emissions are calculated on estimation basis and Scope 1 – AC – fugitive emissions are calculated on estimation basis. Similarly,
Scope 2 emissions are calculated basis unit level consumption and expenditure.
167
Har raah dil se open
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
Investing in a Managing our Policy and Controls
Climate Risk
Sustainable Future ESG & Climate–related Risks and
The interplay of climate risk and Opportunities included in ICAAP
As an Indian financial institution of financial risk poses complex Our Internal Capital Adequacy
repute, we support the country’s challenges to the economy and its Assessment (ICAAP) evaluates ESG
development agenda in alignment participants. Climate risks both and climate risks as material risks,
with the UN Sustainable Development physical and transition–related including both physical risk and
Goals (UN SDGs) and India’s operate through diverse channels transition risk.
commitments under the Paris and require comprehensive risk
Agreement. We invest in sectors that management since these impact Strengthening the ESG Policy
drive equitable and environmentally business profitability, household for Lending
responsible progress. Our Sustainable wealth, financial stability, and could Our ‘ESG Policy for Lending’
Financing Framework, aligned to the potentially lead to stranded assets. integrates environmental and social
UN SDGs and launched in August At both micro and macro levels, the risk assessment into our credit
2021, is a blueprint for ESG–linked fallout may range from property appraisal process in alignment with
issuances. It is the first such damage to capital depreciation. international standards. The policy’s
framework by an Indian Bank to For the financial sector, this implementation is overseen by the
receive a Second Party Opinion, and translates to heightened credit, Environmental and Social Management
its implementation is overseen by our market, underwriting, operational, Group within the Credit vertical.
ESG Working Group. and liquidity risks, manifesting as
Adopting the Sustainable Financing
higher defaults, asset repricing,
Aware of the environmental and
Framework and Establishing the ESG
insurance coverage gaps, operational
social impact of its business, the Bank
Working Group
disruptions, and strained liquidity.
integrates Environmental, Social and
Governance (ESG) considerations into Our Sustainable Financing
Actions undertaken under ESG
its investment decisions. Since 2021, Framework, launched in 2021 in
Committee and Risk functions can be
the ESG Committee of the Board alignment with global standards
broadly placed into four focus areas:
has been guiding and overseeing the like those of the International
Bank’s efforts in this matter, with a Governance Capital Market Association (ICMA)
sharp focus on managing climate– and the Association of Southeast
Strengthening Board–level Oversight
related as well as ESG–related risks. Asian Nations (ASEAN), is endorsed
on Climate and ESG Risks
Under the ESG Committee’s guidance by Sustainalytics. We have also
and led by the Risk Management Climate and ESG risks have been established the ESG Working
Department, we are enhancing formally integrated into our risk Group to ensure compliance in our
our capabilities and frameworks categories and are managed under the financing activities.
for climate risk management at oversight of the Risk Committee of
Risk Toolkit
the enterprise level. This proactive the Board. As we broaden their scope
approach not only safeguards our in our Risk Management Framework, ESG Rating Model Part of Credit
operations but also positions us to we continue to strengthen the Appraisal
capitalise on emerging opportunities Committee’s governance of these Piloted in fiscal 2023, our ESG rating
in the evolving climate landscape. risks. The Board’s Committee of model has been implemented as part
Directors also evaluates key cases,
of the credit appraisal process for
including their assessment as per our
select Wholesale Banking clients.
‘ESG Policy for Lending’ to ensure
Developed in–house, it encompasses
alignment with our risk management
over 80 parameters across the
strategy.
168
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For the environment - Sustainable finance
E, S, and G pillars. This model aligns transition risk, highlighting exposures a two–day climate risk training
closely with International Finance and asset quality in sectors facing workshop was organised by Indian
Corporation (IFC) Performance high transition risk, such as coal and and foreign experts under a UK
Standards, reinforcing our thermal power. For physical risks, we government program for emerging
commitment to integrating ESG assessed the Bank’s retail, rural and economies (UK PACT), which saw the
principles into our lending practices. SME portfolios against four major participation of the entire Risk and
In current fiscal year, we have further natural hazards in India – cyclones, Corporate Underwriting verticals of
enhanced this ESG rating model at a droughts, heat waves, and floods. the Bank.
borrower level. These assessments were presented to
Engagement with Peers
the ESG Committee during the year.
Building Capabilities around and Regulators
Stress Testing Capacity Building
The Bank also proactively engages
We are building stress testing and Bank–wide ESG Education with the wider industry, its peers,
scenario analysis capabilities in and Participation and the regulators on the key topics,
line with regulatory guidance and including ESG, climate risk, and
We rolled out a Bank–wide ESG
expectations and studying external sustainable finance. The Bank’s
e–module last year, introducing
best practices to expedite our leadership is on key ESG and Climate
employees to concepts including
learning process. committees, and formal groupings,
ESG, climate–related risks and
including at the RBI, IBA, CII and
Developing Climate Risk Dashboards opportunities, pertinent national
FICCI, among others.
and international frameworks and
Since the previous fiscal year, we
regulations, and the Bank’s own In fiscal 2025, the Bank actively
have been working to enhance
policies and activities in this space. engaged with the Reserve Bank of
our disclosure on climate risks,
Apart from the specialised internal India on climate risk management and
covering key metrics for physical and
and external trainings and awareness other material topics, sharing its inputs
transition risks, as well as our lending
programs arranged by the Bank, and recommendations to further the
and financing activities to sectors
programs undertaken by regulatory banking sector’s active participation in
aligned to the Sustainable Financing
agencies and industry organisations India’s climate transition.
Framework. During fiscal 2025, we
keep the Bank’s employees updated
presented a snapshot of the Bank’s
on these matters. In fiscal 2024–25,
169
Har raah dil se open
ESG Policy for Lending
447 369
Formulated in 2015, our ESG
Policy for Lending is aligned to the Proposals assessed under Cases related to sustainable
IFC performance standards and ESG Policy for Lending in financing were heard at the
other international standards and fiscal 2025 Board–level during the year
frameworks on sustainable financing
and lending. It is applied to various
financial products, including project
loans, corporate loans, lines of credit,
bridge loans, overseas funding,
consortium/multiple banking,
syndicated loans, and refinance
transactions, subject to internal
criteria and threshold limits.
Under the guidance of the ESG
Committee, the Bank has further
expanded the scope of the Policy
to further tighten the E&S due
diligence requirements for proposals
for sectors perceived to have high
climate-related risks. The Policy is
Fiscal 2025 Cat A Cat B+ Cat B Cat C Cat Fl Total Count
managed by a specialized team of E&S
risk professionals housed under the Cases Eligible 1 0 74 2 1 78
Corporate Underwriting vertical.
COD cases Review of Project portfolio/Group Companies portfolio
369
w.r.t. IFC Performance Standards for the ESG Compliances
As a part of its due diligence, the Bank
also actively engages with and Total cases in fiscal 2025
447
advises its stakeholders on adopting
climate-smart best practices.
The categorisation of cases reflects the status as of March 31, 2025. It is to be noted that due to
material changes in the proposal or project, the categorisation of cases can also change over the
D duration of the loan. In fiscal 2022, projects were categorised as A, B+, B, C, FI under our ESG
51,000
crores Policy for Lending. We undertook a self–assessment of the policy under the IFC’s ESMS diagnostic
tool, which benchmarks environmental and social management systems (such as our ESG Policy
Total value of proposals for Lending) against IFC’s performance standards and global best practices. The tool evaluates on
reviewed under the ESG the basis of nine parameters, such as policy, due diligence, governance, capacity, and the control
Policy for Lending in environment, categorising them as ‘State of the Art’, ‘Developed’, and ‘Emerging’. Our ESG Policy
for Lending scored ‘State of the Art’ on four parameters and ‘Developed’ on three. We are now
fiscal 2025
embedding the learnings into our processes.
The summary of project categories and due diligence under the policy are also accessible
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default–source/default–document–library/esg–policy–
and–procedure.pdf
170
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For the environment - Sustainable finance
Case Studies Highlighting Environmental and Social Due Diligence (ESDD)
Conducted under the ESG Policy for Lending
Case Study
Empowering To boost e–mobility in rural and and Social Management System
non–Metro India, a targeted loan (ESMS) related to the supply
Green Mobility
product was designed, especially chain of the NBFC, labour and
for low–income communities. This working conditions for workers/
with
initiative, part of a co–lending contractors, road safety risks
ESG–driven arrangement with a sub–borrower for two–wheeler users and
(an NBFC in this case), also aimed safety standards related to e–
Lending to support affordable transport two–wheelers safety standards,
solutions and green infrastructure. especially those concerning
Oversight
unsafe battery charging. This
What set this lending apart was the
approach demonstrates how
due diligence conducted on sub–
targeted lending, when backed
borrower’s operations, including
by robust ESG safeguards, can
upstream and downstream lending,
enable inclusive growth while
in alignment with IFC performance
actively managing social and
standards. Among the major points
environmental risks.
considered were Environmental
Case Study
Independent In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank initiated advisory assessed the project’s
the sanction process for the potential impacts, including
Consulting acquisition of a thermal asset legacy risks, and provided a
under NCLT – a project marked comprehensive Environment &
for High–risk
as Category A owing to its high Social Action Plan (ESAP), which
environmental and social (E&S) risk. forms a part of our annual review
Assets
and monitoring obligations in
In line with our ESG Policy
accordance with the project’s
of Lending and international
development stage. This case
best practices, we engaged an
reflects Axis Bank’s commitment
independent E&S consulting
to robust ESG risk management,
support to conduct enhanced due
particularly in complex, high–risk
diligence prior to loan disbursement.
transactions, and underscores the
This process is aligned with IFC
value of expert–led, independent
performance standards and
assessment in upholding
other globally recognised E&S
responsible financing standards.
frameworks. The independent
171
Har raah dil se open
Case Study
Going In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank initiated firsthand. This included evaluating
the sanction process for a project water use, effluent management,
beyond in the water–intensive sector and and compliance with pollution
high–pollution paper sector. Although control norms.
ESG Policy
the proposal was not within the
This proactive approach reflects Axis
scope of ESG Policy of Lending of the
for Critical Bank’s evolving ESG risk framework,
Bank, the critical environmental risks
where materiality of impact, rather
Sectors associated with the sector prompted
than policy thresholds alone, guides
an enhanced review. The Bank opted
decision–making. It reinforces the
to go beyond policy requirement to
Bank’s commitment to responsible
undertake a thorough site visit to
lending, especially in environmentally
assess the Company’s environmental
sensitive sectors.
and social (E&S) performance
Revised Target Fiscal 2025 Achievements
In 2021, under the oversight
of the ESG Committee of the
60,000 ~₹48,412
Board, the Bank had committed crores crores
to accelerating its lending
Incremental financial under sanctioned
activities towards the following
Wholesale Banking to sectors
goals. The target for Wholesale
with positive social and
Banking was achieved in
environmental outcomes by
fiscal 2024 itself whereas, for
fiscal 2030 (from fiscal 2021)
the Retail two–wheeler loan
portfolio target was till fiscal 6 7.14
% %
2024. The Bank then took on
a revised targets in this fiscal Two–Wheeler (2W) loan penetration for two–wheeler
for Wholesale Banking and EV portfolio by fiscal 2027*
Wheels which are articulated
4 2.92
along with its achievement in % %
fiscal 2025 below:
Increase in share of EV revenue penetration for four–wheeler
(₹) in Four–Wheeler (4W)
passenger loan portfolio
by fiscal 2027*
*Penetration target for each fiscal in 4W and 2W segments respectively
Scaling the Green Wholesale Green Lending Portfolio (I in crores)
Portfolio
FY 2024–25 22,160
We are continuously working to expand our Wholesale
FY 2023–24 18,907
Banking lending portfolio in sustainable sectors, including
FY 2022–23 18,142
renewable energy generation, urban mass transport,
electric mobility, and green infrastructure. FY 2021–22 12,255
FY 2020–21 9,753
172
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For the environment - Sustainable finance
Decarbonising our India’s ambitious plans for renewable
energy, green hydrogen, carbon
Lending Portfolio
trading, and technological innovation
are critical for its transition to a low–
Under the oversight of our ESG
carbon economy in the midst of global
Committee, we are reducing our
challenges. At the same time, it is
exposure to carbon–intensive
important for the energy transition to
sectors like thermal power and
be just and equitable, particularly for
coal within our Wholesale Banking
vulnerable sections and communities.
portfolio in alignment with India’s
Net Zero ambitions. At this moment
this is an internal commitment and 1.2
%
progress made over a glide path that
is in place till 2030 is reviewed by Exposure to thermal power
the ESG Committee of the Board generation and coal mining,
and the Bank’s leadership. While logistics and trading in the
thermal power remains crucial for Bank’s total exposure (as of
the country’s economic growth in the March 31, 2025)
medium term, we understand that
another industry–prevalent metric
– percentage of EV sales per month, 12,704
the Bank had performed well. For
EV loans offered in
example, EV sales penetration was
fiscal 2025
above 5% in 9 of the 12 months in
fiscal 2024, and at 5.53% for the entire
financial year.
Special deals with select OEMs and
In this fiscal, the Bank relooked at
higher payouts have also supported
this target and decided to take on the
greater EV adoption. We have
below targets:
proactively scaled up our partnerships
Impetus to Retail EV » Increasing share of electric vehicle and engagements with EV dealers,
revenue (INR) in Two–Wheeler loan manufacturers, and other players in
Financing portfolio – 6% by 2027 the commercial EV space, which is also
In fiscal 2021, the Bank had taken
» Increasing share of electric vehicle influenced by factors such as battery
technology and the level of subsidies.
revenue (INR) in Four–Wheeler
a target, to have 5% of our retail
The Bank continues to maintain its
passenger loan portfolio – 4%
two–wheeler loan portfolio (in rupee
bullishness on the sector and has
by 2027
value) in electric by March 2024.
communicated to the ESG Committee
We improved our product offerings Against which the Bank has achieved its intent to set fresh targets for EV 2
and incentives to boost this growing 7.14% penetration for 2–wheeler and wheeler and 4 wheeler loans.
sector. Last fiscal, the cumulative 2.92% penetration for 4–wheeler
percentage of EV loans stood at respectively in FY 2024–25. The Bank
3.62% of the total two–wheeler loan continues to offer a sector–leading up
portfolio since October 2021, when to 0.5% interest rate discount for retail
the Bank began EV two–wheeler customers in the EV segment. Special
loans as a product. In 2021, we offering for certain OEMs with an
were thus starting from a very small increased payout helped increase the
nominator. When compared against EV penetration in the market.
173
Har raah dil se open
Partnering to Accelerate EV Transition in India
E–Mobility Loan Guarantee with has provided a 65% on–demand infra opportunities such as
GuarantCo in November 2021 credit guarantee to Axis Bank for renewables, solar power etc.
this transaction. GuarantCo has provided a 65%
During COP26 in Glasgow, Axis
on–demand credit guarantee to
Bank announced a partnership Extending ₹2.5 billion Loan to
Axis Bank for this transaction.
with the guarantee arm of Vivriti Capital
the Private Infrastructure Extending ₹1 billion Loan to
On December 12, 2023, in
Development Group (PIDG), Everest Fleet
collaboration with GuarantCo,
GuarantCo, committing to
Axis Bank provided a three–year On January 10, 2024, in
establish a $200 million umbrella
loan of ₹2.5 billion to Vivriti partnership with GuarantCo,
guarantee framework. Part of a
Capital, an impact focused Indian the Bank facilitated a four–year
broader $300 million program,
NBFC. This financing supports loan of ₹1 billion to Everest
the initiative aims to accelerate
Vivriti Capital’s objective of Fleet, India’s largest independent
financing for entities involved in
providing loans to companies fleet management provider.
EV manufacturing, distribution
within India’s e–mobility This financing empowers
and charging infrastructure.
ecosystem, contributing to Everest Fleet to acquire EVs
Extending ₹1 billion Loan sustainable development in for deployment as green taxis,
to Muthoot Capital under the sector. aligning with India’s sustainable
GuarantCo Partnership transportation goals.
Investing in ₹2 billion NCD of
In September 2024, with Vivriti Capital
GuarantCo, the Bank extended
In March 2025, Axis Bank, with
₹1 billion (~$12 million) loan for
GuarantCo cover, invested
2.5 years to Muthoot Capital
₹2 billion (~$24 Mn) in the
Services Limited (MCSL). This
70–month non–convertible
funding will empower MCSL to
debenture (NCD) of Vivriti
lend to customers in rural and
Capital Ltd. The funding is to be
non–metro regions in India for
used for on–lending in identified
purchasing new EVs. GuarantCo
Collaborations, Deals and Associations
Partnering with IFC for a $500 Mn in sustainable water management, India’s First Sustainable AT1
Climate Loan in India marine ecosystem restoration, Issuance
sustainable shipping, and renewable
In partnership with Axis Bank, IFC Axis Bank undertook India’s first
energy.
has provided a $500 million loan sustainable AT1 issuance priced
to scale up green financing in India . at $600 million in the overseas
The collaboration also marks IFC’s markets on September 1, 2021.
first–ever blue investment in India With this issuance, India became
and the country’s first blue loan the second jurisdiction in Asia with
issued by a financial institution. an ESG AT1 issuance.
Blue finance, an emerging area
in climate finance, aims to invest
174
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
For the environment - Sustainable finance
Collaborating to Offer Supply Green Home Rooftop Solar Financing
Chain Finance Loans for SMEs
Axis Bank has signed a Partial In partnership with Mahindra The Bank has funded rooftop solar
Guarantee Facility Agreement Lifespace in November 2023, projects amounting to ₹5.7 crores
(PGFA) with the Asian Axis Bank offers customers home under its SME financing portfolio.
Development Bank (ADB) to loans at competitive rates for Average capacity of the rooftop
support supply chain financing green projects. In fiscal 2025, solar project is ~135 KW. The
for impact sectors. Under the 43 fresh home loans for ₹38.03 Bank has also signed an MoU with
arrangement, ADB will provide crores were sanctioned under SIDBI for a GIFT Scheme towards
guarantees (variable) to the the Mahindra Lifespace project. green investment financing.
lending done by Axis Bank.
The program is scalable, with
an initial foundation ramp up of
nearly $150 million.
Other Marquee Transactions
Sustainable Club Loan of $200 million Bilateral Loan from Lead Arranger in Biocon’s
$150 million from HSBC & MUFG under the Sustainable Acquisition of Viatris
MUFG Financing Framework
The Bank was the lead arranger
The Bank concluded a The Bank availed a for a sustainability–linked loan
Sustainable Club Loan from $200 million bilateral loan from in the pharmaceuticals and
HSBC and MUFG for a total MUFG in March 2024 aligned biomanufacturing sector in the
of $150 million in GIFT City to its Sustainable Financing Asia–Pacific region, with the
branch in May 2023, aligned Framework. The purpose of proceeds earmarked to support
with its Sustainability Financing the loan is to finance and/or Biocon Biologics’ acquisition of the
Framework*. refinance eligible green projects global Biosimilars business of its
and/or eligible social projects. partner, Viatris Inc. This is one of
the largest outbound cross–border
M&A financings from India.
*Read about our Sustainability Financing Framework
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default–source/default–document–library/axis–bank–sustainable–financing–framework.pdf
Engagement with Subsidiary Entities
Within the ‘One Axis’ framework, we offer a wide range of products and solutions through our business segments and
subsidiaries alongside the services provided by our banking segments. Similarly, we are cognisant of the importance of
a two–way engagement with our subsidiary companies on ESG matters to create shared value. Regular engagements with
our subsidiaries help us exchange best ESG practices and communicate our priorities to create positive impact.
175
Governance
176
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Strong governance is the cornerstone of Axis
Bank’s commitment to integrity, transparency, and
accountability. Our robust governance framework
ensures ethical decision–making, effective risk
management, and alignment with stakeholder interests.
By fostering a culture of ownership and responsible
leadership, we safeguard long–term value creation and
maintain the trust that is vital to our sustained success.
177
Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
An openness grounded in trust
and accountability
Our governance
framework is built on the
principles of transparency,
accountability and ethical
conduct. Guided by an
openness to scrutiny and
responsible leadership,
we ensure that every
decision and action we
take upholds the trust
of our stakeholders and
reflects our commitment
to fairness, inclusion and
long–term value creation.
Our Governance Framework
The Bank’s governance framework are entrusted with setting the
clearly defines the roles, strategic direction, defining the
responsibilities, and reporting Bank’s risk appetite, and ensuring
structures across the Board, rigorous oversight to safeguard
management, and key committees. stakeholder interests.
Our Board and its committees
Material Issues Linkage
M1 M2 M3
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
178
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Governance Structure
1
Board
of Directors
Sets strategic
direction for the Bank
Board Committees 2
Provide oversight on key areas,
including risk, audit, remuneration,
and compliance
3 MD & CEO, Deputy MD and Executive Directors
Lead strategic execution and oversee major
business verticals
4
Management and Executive Committees
Drive performance and operational excellence and
implement Board–approved strategies
5
Business units and supporting functions
Execute operations, deliver services, and manage risks in alignment
with strategic goals
Board Composition
8
The composition of the Board is As of March 31, 2025, the Board
governed by relevant provisions of the comprised 13 Directors, including the Independent Directors
Companies Act 2013 (the ‘Act’) and Managing Director and CEO, Deputy among a total of 13 Directors
the relevant rules made thereunder, Managing Director, 2 Executive
2
the Securities and Exchange Board Directors, 8 Independent Directors,
of India (Listing Obligations and and 1 Nominee Director from the Life
Women Directors
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, Insurance Corporation of India (LIC),
2015 (the ‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), the Bank’s promoter. An Independent 12
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Director and a part–time Chairman
guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank leads the Board. Directors >50 years
of India (RBI), as amended from time to
1
time and the Articles of Association of
the Bank (the ‘extant laws’).
Director <50 years
179
Governance
Board Expertise
Our Board comprises distinguished
professionals with expertise across
diverse disciplines, each contributing
to the Bank’s commitment to
sustainable value creation. Anchored
to a customer–first approach and
guided by the highest standards
of ethical governance, the Board
leverages its collective experience
to drive innovation and long–
term growth.
Board Skill and Experience*
Finance Business Management Human Resources
% of Directors % of Directors % of Directors
85% 69% 69%
Number of Directors Number of Directors Number of Directors
11 9 9
Risk Management Banking Information Technology
% of Directors % of Directors % of Directors
62% 69% 69%
Number of Directors Number of Directors Number of Directors
8 9 9
180
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Accountancy Agriculture and Rural Economy Economics
% of Directors % of Directors % of Directors
46% 31% 23%
Number of Directors Number of Directors Number of Directors
6 4 3
Payment and Settlement Systems Co–operation Small Scale Industry
% of Directors % of Directors % of Directors
23% 15% 15%
Number of Directors Number of Directors Number of Directors
3 2 2
Law
% of Directors
15%
Number of Directors
2
*as per Banking Regulation Act
181
Governance
Board Committees
Stakeholders Relationship Customer Service Committee
The Board has constituted various Committee Composition:
board level committees for a more
Composition:
focused review of specific matters.
The Bank has also constituted various
executive committees to inter alia
Role: Supervises functioning
deal with routine, operational and
Role: Addressing grievances of of customers’ sub–committees,
administrative matters, and review
security holders, review complaints, addresses complaints, reviews and
various matters before its submission
adherence to service standards approve customer–centric policies,
to the Board/committees.
and measures to reduce monitors regulatory compliance,
unclaimed dividends. and reviews initiatives to enhance
service standards and overall
customer experience.
Audit Committee Nomination and Remuneration
of the Board Committee
Committee of Directors
Composition: Composition:
Composition:
Role: Reviewing findings of Role: Evaluates talent management
audits, reviewing internal control strategy, establishes performance Role: Provides approval for loans
systems, compliance, related party benchmarks, reviews remuneration as per the limits, reviews credit
transactions, financial reporting policies, recommends board policy, exposures, settlements,
and its integrity, and active composition changes and senior treasury investments,
engagement with the Group Chief management changes, and oversees reviews and evaluates critical
Compliance Officer and Group human resource strategy. business proposals across
Chief Audit Executive. various departments.
Risk Management Special Committee of the IT and Digital Strategy
Committee Board for Monitoring and Committee
Follow–up of Cases of Frauds
Composition: Composition:
Composition:
Role: Oversees the Bank’s Role: Approves and oversees IT
risk strategy, defines risk Role: Monitors and review strategy, reviews cyber incidents,
appetite, implements robust risk fraud cases, ensures systemic aligns technology strategy with
management policies, evaluates corrections, examination business objectives/requirements,
risk categories, and reviews of staff accountability, and evaluates IT and cyber security
cyber security measures and review of timely reporting to risks, oversees IT operations,
appointment of Chief Risk regulatory authorities. and guides the Bank’s digital
Officer (CRO). transformation journey.
Non–executive Director
Whole–Time Directors
Independent Director
182
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Besides the Code of Conduct
CSR Committee ESG Committee
(including the Anti–Bribery and
Composition: Composition: Corruption related provisions), policies
related to the Prevention of Sexual
Harassment (POSH), Whistleblower
Mechanism, Conflict of Interest, and
Staff Accountability framework guide
Role: Defines, formulates, and Role: Guiding the Bank’s ESG
employee conduct.
reviews the Bank’s CSR strategy strategy, highlighting key
and themes, oversees and material ESG topics, reviewing
Tax Policy
approve allocation of CSR funds , ESG–related policies for
monitors CSR projects, and regulatory compliance, and
This policy ensures the Bank handles
ensures alignment with the Bank’s advises on adoption of relevant
its tax affairs responsibly, complies
commitment to sustainable social performance metrics and targets.
with relevant laws, and fulfils its
and environmental initiatives.
disclosure obligations in keeping
with international standards such as
the OECD guidelines. It aligns tax
Committee of
management with the Bank’s business
Review Committee Whole–Time Directors
strategy to support long–term value
Composition: Composition: creation and maintain a strong,
responsible taxpayer profile.
Whistleblower and
Role: Consider proposal of Role: Review and approve routine Vigil Mechanism
identification Committee for administrative matters such as
classifications of a borrower as issuance of power of attorney, We maintain a zero–tolerance policy
wilful defaulter. allotment of securities, and for breaches of our Code of Conduct
such other matters as may be and Ethics. Our Whistleblower Policy
delegated to it by the Board or and vigil mechanism encourage
Board Committee employees to report any illegal,
Acquisitions, Divestments, and unethical, or inappropriate conduct,
Mergers Committee (ADAM) ensuring the anonymity and protection
of the whistleblower. Complaints can
Composition: Policies and Frameworks
be reported anonymously through our
dedicated web–based platform.
A robust set of policies and
frameworks underpins the Bank’s
Role: Consider and recommend approach to responsible governance,
proposals relating to mergers, guiding decision–making, risk
acquisitions, strategic management, and ethical conduct
investments, and divestments. across all levels of the organisation.
673
Code of Conduct
Incidents reported under the
Non–executive Director Our Code of Conduct and Ethics Whistleblower Policy
reflects our unwavering dedication
Whole–Time Directors
to ethical conduct and integrity, Whistleblower Complaints (%)
Independent Director reinforced by our core values. It sets
55 45
clear expectations for employee
Anonymous
conduct, ensures compliance complaints
with regulatory standards and
Specific
provides mechanisms for reporting complaints
ethical violations. New hires must
acknowledge the Code, while
existing staff annually reaffirm
their commitment.
183
Governance
Anti–corruption and Anti–bribery zero–tolerance approach to The Bank continues to undertake
non–compliance. In collaboration several initiatives to strengthen
The Bank’s vigilance function,
with Risk and Internal Audit functions, the Governance Framework under
governed by a Board–approved
the Compliance department the supervision of the SGC. The
policy, is led by the Chief of Internal
proactively manages regulatory framework also helps align key
Vigilance (CIV), who drives preventive
risks, guides business units, and uses organisation functions, such as
vigilance, supports policy formulation
tech tools to strengthen oversight. Risk, Compliance, Audit, Human
and reports to the Board’s Audit
A group governance framework Resources, Finance, Information
Committee. Key initiatives include
ensures that subsidiaries align with Technology, Cyber Security, Legal,
conducting the Vigilance Awareness
the Bank’s standards. The Group Chief Corporate Communication, Marketing,
Week, annual staff declarations,
Compliance Officer (GCCO) oversees and Corporate Secretarial across
upholding the Bank’s Anti–Bribery and
consistent compliance across the the Group.
Anti–Corruption Policy online, training,
group through structured reporting
and ensuring service providers uphold
and monitoring. ESG Governance
vigilance standards.
The Bank’s establishment of the
standalone ESG Committee in 2021 ,
343 a pioneering move in the Indian
banking sector, reflects its deep–seated
Vigilance cases processed in commitment to Environmental, Social,
fiscal 2025 Note: Detailed information on all and Governance (ESG) principles. The
ESG committee drives initiatives in
our policies, including the ones
427 mentioned above, can be accessed alignment with the Bank’s purpose
statement—banking for a more inclusive
on our website at
Officials were subjected to and equitable economy, fostering a
disciplinary action during https://www.axisbank.com/ thriving community and
the year shareholders-corner/corporate- a healthier planet.
governance
The ESG Committee of the Board is
supported by a management–level ESG
Conflict of Interest Policy Subsidiary Governance Steering Committee and ESG Working
Group to drive Sustainable Financing
The Conflict of Interest Policy Axis Bank oversees its subsidiaries initiatives. The Bank has in place a
identifies, prevents, and manages to ensure they adhere to corporate Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI)
conflicts between employees and governance principles. The Bank is Council to shape and drive the Bank’s DEI
stakeholders. Employees are advised to committed to continuously improving priorities. The ESG Committee ensures
avoid business with relatives, prioritise internal controls and overseeing integration of ESG goals with the Bank’s
the Bank’s interests, and report its subsidiaries as a Financial operations, enhancing stakeholder trust,
conflicts to the Ethics Department. Conglomerate (FC). and establishing Axis Bank as a leader in
To ensure the alignment of governance sustainable and ‘open’ banking practices.
Human Rights
practices at the Group (Axis Bank and In fiscal 2025, the ESG Committee o f
Our approach is guided by our Human its subsidiaries) level and to positively the Board met four times, reviewing the
Rights Policy, which aligns with engage the Group, the Bank has Bank’s progress towards achieving its
international human rights frameworks established a Subsidiary Governance ESG–aligned commitments and providing
established by the UN, ILO, and OECD. Committee (SGC). This committee guidance on new initiatives and activities.
We have established systems and also helps implement the ‘One Axis’ The Bank’s overall ESG–aligned activities,
procedures in place to prevent human theme by sharing uniform practices highlights and developments during
rights violations across our operations. and building synergies between Group the fiscal year, including its progress on
entities. Additionally, along with SGC, its commitments, are published in this
Compliance all matters of subsidiary governance report and the ESG data book fisca l
are overseen by the executive 2025, prepared per the <IIRC> and GR I
Compliance is a key pillar of Axis Bank’s
committees, the Enterprise Risk reporting framework.
corporate governance, reinforced by
Management Committee (EGRMC)
Board–approved policies and a
and the Board of the Bank.
184
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
ESG Committee
Chairman Committee Member
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Amitabh Chaudhry G. Padmanabhan
Independent Director MD & CEO Independent Director
(As on April 24, 2025)
Fraud Risk Management Key Initiatives of the FCI Unit » Customer Awareness: Digital
campaigns (SMS, email, app, social
The Bank’s governance framework The Bank is focusing on enhancing
media), educational blogs and self–
for fraud risk management integrates fraud prevention capabilities through
service security tools.
advanced methodologies and strategic streamlined yet secure onboarding,
oversight to prevent, detect, and advanced technologies to combat » Employee Engagement: Regular
mitigate fraud risks. The Financial cyber threats like phishing and fraud risk training, leadership
Crime Intelligence (FCI) unit is transaction laundering, and cross– discussions, monthly ‘Sparsh
central to our operations, ensuring authentication methods for enhanced Pulsate’ sessions, and internal
transparency and security in every security. Real–time anomaly detection awareness drives.
customer interaction. The unit helps prevent account takeovers, while
» Corporate Client Advisory:
leverages cutting–edge technology, proactive measures address mule
Industry–specific workshops on
real–time analytics, and robust internal account fraud. Strong collaboration
secure digital practices and cyber
controls to build a fraud–resistant with law enforcement and the Indian
threat mitigation.
environment. We aim to position the Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C)
Bank as the most preferred banking enables swift action against cyber » Future–ready Fraud Defence:
choice for customers and the least fraud. Enhanced staff monitoring and Enhanced verification via risk–based
attractive option for fraudsters. targeted training reinforce internal and multi–factor authentication,
controls and fraud resilience. AI–driven behavioural analytics,
refined fraud algorithms, seamless
Fraud awareness and engagement are
security integration, stronger
necessary to empower customers,
onboarding checks, self–service
employees, and corporate clients
security dashboards, and real–time
to identify and mitigate fraud risks.
anomaly detection.
Among the key initiatives in this regard
are the following:
185
Governance
RISK MANAGEMENT
Resilience through purposeful
risk stewardship
We maintain a robust
and comprehensive Risk
Management Framework
that empowers
us to identify and
address evolving risks
proactively. Supported
by an independent
Risk function, the
Risk Governance Framework
Board maintains a keen
oversight on every aspect A robust and comprehensive Risk the CRO and decides the CRO’s
of risk management, Management Framework enables role and responsibilities, plays
proactive and comprehensive risk a pivotal role in ensuring the
ensuring transparency,
management. It provides guidelines appointee’s independence. The
accountability, and
for managing various risks, including CRO, who steers the Bank’s risk
resilience. credit, liquidity, market, operational, management strategy, reports
compliance and reputation risk. directly to the MD & CEO. The RMD
operates autonomously and actively
The Board, which is the apex
participates in critical decision–
governing body, has both direct
making forums.
and indirect responsibilities for
risk oversight, which are exercised Proactive management of focus
through the Risk Management areas will contribute to a credit–led
Committee (RMC) of the Board. growth in the retail space while
The principal authority responsible maintaining strong focus on cyber
for risk management, the RMC is security, technological resilience, and
assisted by an independent Risk embedding sustainability through
function that reports to both the a robust risk culture. The roadmap
Board and the RMC. also includes targeted initiatives on
managing subsidiary risk, operational
The policies and frameworks
risk, vendor risk, fraud risk, digital risk,
approved by the executive
and underwriting standards. Successful
committees and the RMC
execution of these measures wil l
are implemented by the Risk
enable the Bank to achieve its GPS
Management Department (RMD),
objectives sustainably.
headed by the Chief Risk Officer
(CRO). The Board, which appoints
186
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Risk management
Risk Governance Structure
Board of Directors Executive Risk Committee Risk Management Department
Credit Risk Operation Risk Asset and Liability Information Central
Management Management Management Systems Security Outsourcing
Committee (CRMC) Committee (ORMC) Committee (ALCO) Committee (ISSC) Committee (COC)
BCP & Crisis Apex Subsidiary Enterprise & Group
Management Committee Governance Risk Management
Committee (BCPMC) Committee (SGC) Committee (EGRMC)
Risk Management Committee (RMC) Members
G. Padmanabhan Amitabh Chaudhry Girish Paranjpe Pranam Wahi Munish Sharda
Chairperson, Member, Member, Member, Member,
Independent Managing Director Independent Independent Executive
Director & CEO Director Director Director
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE KEY FOCUS AREAS FOR
RMC IN FISCAL 2025 FISCAL 2026
Strengthened Stress Enhancing governance around
Group testing framework risk appetite
risk oversight enhancements
Ensuring Unsecured
Enhanced Strengthened cyber security lending,
monitoring and cyber security including models
risk coverage
Managing Risk &
Model risk Strengthened digital and compliance
enhancements risk resilience technology risk culture
187
Governance
Other Components of Risk Management
Internal Audit Business Continuity Plan Fraud Detection and Mitigation
The Bank’s Internal Audit function The Business Continuity Plan (BCP) is Guided by a comprehensive Fraud Risk
independently evaluates internal overseen by the Business Continuity Management Policy, which is reinforced
controls, risk management, and Planning Management Committee by established processes, the Bank is
governance, and reports to the Board on (BCPMC), an executive risk committee committed to providing robust protection
compliance with internal and regulatory mandated by the RMC. The committee against fraud. An advanced IT system
guidelines. Guided by the RBI’s Risk– ensures effective implementation and ensures that transactions are monitored
Based Internal Audit (RBIA) standards, testing of the BCP framework across in real–time, ensuring that suspicious
the Bank’s audit policy emphasises a critical internal operations, preparing the activities are immediately detected.
strategic focus on emerging business Bank to respond seamlessly to various An enterprise–wide anti–money
risks. A range of audit methodologies contingency scenarios. Insights gathered laundering (AML) software generates
are followed by Internal Audit, which has from these tests and exercises are timely alerts, enabling efficient
also embraced technology–driven audits systematically integrated into the BCP to monitoring, investigation, and reporting
to enhance efficiency and effectiveness . ensure uninterrupted services and trust– of potentially fraudulent transactions.
Emphasis is laid on continuous skill– building with customers. A dedicated fraud management system
building and compliance with guidelines further strengthens the Bank’s defences
and established standards to uphold by actively tackling fraudulent activities
robust controls, which reflects our in credit and debit card transactions.
commitment to building trust and
openness amongst stakeholders.
Risk Management Approach
Our approach to risk management is not just about safeguarding assets, it is about cultivating trust, transparency, and
resilience through every decision we make. Built on four foundational pillars, our framework empowers us to anticipate
uncertainties, respond proactively, and confidently navigate them.
Foundational Pillars of Risk Management
Risk Philosophy Risk Identification and Risk Appetite Risk Culture
Mitigation and Policies
At the Bank, risk is Through vigilant Our clearly defined A robust risk culture is
everyone’s responsibility. monitoring, the RMD risk appetite, reinforced at all levels.
Recognising that trust remains cognisant of approved by the RMC, Our Board and senior
is invaluable, we ensure emerging risks, reporting empowers informed management lead by
that compliance and them on time to the Board decision–making. example, championing
reputation protection and RMC via established Robust, Board–approved openness, accountability,
are non–negotiable. This frameworks such as ICAAP policies transparently and transparency. The
shared responsibility and Risk Dashboards. outline our risk–taking compliance function
fosters a culture of In close collaboration boundaries. Executive and RMD ensure the
integrity and openness, with the business units, committees and the culture permeates across
where protecting RMD ensures effective Risk Management the group.
our stakeholders’ risk mitigation, fostering Department (RMD)
interests becomes our a culture where everyone ensure effective
topmost priority. actively owns and manages and transparent
risks in their daily roles. implementation.
188
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Risk management
Specific Risk Management Initiatives
KEY MATERIAL RISKS Mitigation Measures Risk Status
Credit Risk Wholesale Banking Retail Banking
Internal ratings form Product–specific
the backbone of our scorecards are used
Credit risk refers to the potential financial
risk management for retail customers,
loss when a counterparty, such as a
process, determining including small businesses
customer, borrower, or security issuer,
risk acceptance, and small agriculture
fails to fulfil contractual obligations.
maximum exposure borrowers. An independent
Our credit risk management is designed
limits, sanctioning validation team rigorously
to maintain asset quality and manage
authority, pricing, and evaluates these credit
concentration risks at both individual
review frequency. models to ensure robust
exposure and portfolio levels.
discriminatory power,
precise calibration, and
Capital Linkage SDGs Impacted
long–term stability.
KEY MATERIAL RISKS Mitigation Measures Risk Status
Market Risk Comprehensive Risk (VaR), stress tests, back
Framework tests, and scenario analysis,
The Bank employs a as well as non–statistical
Market risk arises from potential losses
well–defined market risk measures such as position
in on– and off–balance sheet positions,
management framework, limits, Marked–to–Market
resulting from market price movements
guided by clear policies, (MTM) evaluations, and
and their associated volatility, which can
guidelines, and processes, stop–loss limits, to manage
impact the Bank’s earnings and capital.
to identify, measure, risk effectively.
This includes interest rate, equity price,
monitor, and report
and foreign exchange rates. Our trading
exposures within its VaR Calculation
and investment activities, carried out for
VaR is calculated using
risk appetite.
customers and on a proprietary basis, are
a historical simulation at
primary sources of market risk.
Independent Oversight a 99% confidence level
RMD independently over a one–day holding
monitors investment and period, based on a 250–day
trading portfolios, ensuring horizon, and bolstered by
adherence to predefined continuous back testing and
risk limits and promptly stress testing.
reporting deviations.
This ensures a proactive
Capital Linkage SDGs Impacted Statistical & Non– and resilient approach to
managing market risk aligned
Statistical Measures
with the Bank’s risk appetite.
The Bank utilises statistical
tools, including Value at
Increase No Change
189
Governance
KEY MATERIAL RISKS Mitigation Measures Risk Status
Liquidity Risk Comprehensive Regulatory Adherence
Framework The Bank aligns with RBI
The Bank’s Asset Liability guidelines and Basel III
Liquidity refers to a bank’s ability to
Management (ALM) Policy requirements such as
finance asset growth and fulfil expected
outlines a robust liquidity the Liquidity Coverage
and unexpected cash and collateral
risk management system, Ratio (LCR) and Net
obligations at a reasonable cost. Liquidity
supported by additional Stable Funding Ratio
risk arises when the bank cannot meet
policies for intraday (NSFR), maintaining levels
these obligations without compromising
liquidity, stress testing, consistent with regulations
its financial condition.
contingency funding, and and the Bank’s risk appetite.
branch–level liquidity.
Monitoring & Oversight
Liquidity profiles are
reviewed through static
and dynamic gap analyses,
key ratios, and stress tests,
Capital Linkage SDG Impacted
with ongoing supervision
by the ALCO and RMC.
KEY MATERIAL RISKS Mitigation Measures Risk Status
Information and Robust Framework and deploying IT infrastructure
Governance or applications, the Bank
Cyber Security Risks
The Bank has implemented conducts thorough
a comprehensive security checks,
Information and cyber security risks
Information and Cyber vulnerability assessments,
for banks arise from the possibility of
Security program governed and penetration tests.
unauthorised access, manipulation,
by the Information System
or theft of sensitive data and assets. Defence–in–Depth and 24x7
Security Committee.
Breaches, whether through hacking, Monitoring
Policies and standards are
phishing, or malware, can disrupt A multi–layered security
aligned with best practices
services, compromise customer approach, supported by round–
and regulatory guidelines,
information, and erode trust in the the–clock Security Operation
including NIST, ISO
bank’s operations. Strong security Centres (SOC), continuously
27001:2013, and PCI DSS,
measures, such as encryption, multi– monitors digital assets.
that ensure regular threat
factor authentication, and regular audits, The Bank collaborates with
assessments and controls.
protect the institution and its customers regulatory bodies and industry
from evolving cyber threats. Proactive Security stakeholders to strengthen its
Measures cyber defence and implement
Technical and recommended measures.
administrative controls
Capital Linkage SDGs Impacted prevent, detect, and
respond to suspicious
activities. Prior to
Increase No Change
190
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Risk management
KEY MATERIAL RISKS Mitigation Measures Risk Status
Operational Risk Comprehensive ORM Policy team, supported by Product/
and Governance Change Management
A structured Operational Committees and the
Operational risks can arise from Risk Management (ORM) Outsourcing Committee.
inadequate or missing controls within Policy guides proactive risk The Information System
internal processes, personnel, and identification, assessment, Security Committee oversees
systems, as well as from external events mitigation, and monitoring, operational risk within
or a combination of these factors. reinforced by a clear information systems.
governance framework.
Measurement System and
Thorough Evaluation and Continuous Enhancement
Committee Oversight A dedicated Operational
All new products, processes, Risk Measurement System
and changes undergo documents, assesses, and
rigorous risk assessment periodically reviews risks
Capital Linkage SDGs Impacted
by the Operational Risk and controls across all
business lines.
KEY MATERIAL RISKS Mitigation Measures Risk Status
Climate Risk Global Framework climate–related and ESG
Alignment and Climate risks. Focusing on high–
Risk Integration transition–risk sectors
Climate risk broadly fall into two categories:
The Bank publishes TCFD– and natural hazards, we
Transition Risks aligned disclosures in strengthen enterprise–wide
These arise from shifts in policy, regulation, accordance with the RBI’s risk management and foster
technology, or consumer preferences as the guidelines, recognising resilience across our retail,
world moves toward a low–carbon future. that climate change affects rural, and SME portfolios.
credit, operational, market,
Physical Risks Building Capabilities and
reputational, and liquidity
Fostering a Climate–
This category includes both chronic risks. We now monitor
conscious Culture
and acute impacts of climate change. physical and transition risk
Our Climate Risk
Chronic risks involve long–term changes for key business verticals
Dashboards capture
in temperature, precipitation patterns, under the purview of
key risk metrics, while a
agricultural productivity, and sea levels, the ESG Committee, and
Bank–wide ESG e–module
whereas acute risks encompass more continue to focus on
and specialised training
immediate events, such as heat waves, developing capability for
embed climate awareness.
floods, cyclones, and wildfires. climate scenario analysis
Collaborating with industry
and stress testing in line
bodies and regulators,
with regulatory guidance.
Capital Linkage SDGs Impacted we seek to safeguard our
Robust Governance and operations and further our
Strategic Oversight sustainability objectives.
Since 2021, the ESG
Committee has guided
the Bank’s approach to
Increase No Change
191
Governance
CYBER SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY
Safeguarding customer confidence
with uncompromising security
Our Cyber Security and
Data Privacy Framework
is critical in upholding
customer trust and
assuring them that their
personal and financial
information are handled
responsibly. Our goal is to
create secure, seamless
and trusted banking
experiences that give
customers the freedom to
engage with us confidently,
knowing that behind every
open interaction is a deeply
secure foundation.
An efficient cyber security A robust defence–in–depth approach,
governance and a protective coupled with 24x7 monitoring from
architecture are more critical than our Security Operations Centre
ever in today’s rapidly advancing (SOC), shields our critical assets
Material Issues Linkage
digital landscape. Our adherence to from unauthorised access, hacking
M1 M5 ISO 27001 and PCI–DSS standards, attempts, and data loss. Aligned with
our ISO 27017 cloud security industry best practices and regulatory
certification, and the newly guidelines, we reinforce customer
Capital Linkage acquired ISO 27018 (Cloud PII Data confidence across every banking
Security) certification demonstrate channel, demonstrating how openness
our deep commitment to protecting and security coexist seamlessly.
customers’ personal information.
SDG Impacted
192
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Cyber security and data privacy
Cyber Security Governance Framework
The Bank has a robust corporate cyber threat landscape and validate oversight of information and cyber
governance framework for information the Bank’s cyber security controls. security related initiatives, ensuring
and cyber security. The Information they remain aligned with regulatory
The Information Technology and
System Security Committee (ISSC), directives and benchmarked against
Digital Strategy Committee and the
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, industry best practices.
Risk Management Committee provide
meets quarterly to review the evolving
Board Committees Executive Committees
Risk Management Information Technology & Information System
Committee Digital Strategy Committee Security Committee
Oversee
Information and cyber security initiatives to assess the threat landscape and ensure that controls
are commensurate with the cyber risks
The Bank has a comprehensive Feeds and receive inputs from various
Information and Cyber Security regulatory bodies, such as the Reserve
Policy and has invested in robust Bank of India – Cyber Security and
technical and administrative controls Information Technology Examination
to prevent, detect, and respond (RBI–CSITE) and the National Critical
to suspicious activity. We conduct Information Infrastructure Protection
thorough assessments before Centre (NCIIPC).
introducing new systems or services,
We extend a powerful security
encompassing application security
umbrella across Internet Banking,
and vulnerability checks, penetration
Mobile Banking, and Credit Cards by
testing, and architecture reviews.
combining multifactor authentication,
We also work closely with regulatory
real–time fraud monitoring, and other
bodies and continuously invest in
best practices. We protect customer
vendor risk management and security
data through vigilant detection and
awareness programs for outsourced
rapid response to threats.
employees. We have also subscribed
to Commercial Threat Intelligence
193
Governance
Measures for Proactive Detection of Cyber Threats
» Combining a Zero–Trust » Round–the–clock vigilance detects » We ensure our applications
architecture with micro– malicious activities early, supported and on–premises tools
segmentation to minimise the by real–time threat intelligence to (e.g. patch management and file
potential for cyber–attacks and to pre–empt potential breaches integrity monitoring) are fortified
ensure secure remote access against threats
» Enhanced monitoring detects
» A well–defined security unauthorised access and potential » Encryption and compliance
framework ensures end–to–end data leaks, while secure mobile controls underpin the Bank’s
compliance, continuous monitoring, capabilities facilitate remote work Cloud–First strategy, while
and consistent adherence to aligned with sustainability goals rigorous evaluations of SaaS
global standards and PaaS providers guarantee
» Federated identity management
alignment with regulatory and
» Encryption, digital rights and network access controls ensure
security benchmarks
management, and data that only authorised users can access
classification are integrated into the sensitive data and systems » The Bank has deployed Microsoft
Bank’s architecture and standard Defender XDR for real–time
» The Security Operation Centre
operating procedures (SOPs), threat detection and response;
collaborates closely with regulatory
ensuring that privacy is an integral Microsoft Defender (Endpoint)
bodies, leveraging real–time insights
part of every process utilises machine learning and
to strengthen cyber defence across
artificial intelligence to monitor
» Sophisticated endpoint controls all operations
threats continuously
and Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
systems help identify and prevent
unauthorised data exposures
Data Privacy: Securing Privileged identity and access as UPI–enabled ATM services,
management solutions strengthen RuPay Credit Cards on UPI, and
Trust, Dil Se
data access security, with Aadhaar global payment capabilities. Our
data secured in a dedicated vault in robust IT infrastructure ensures
Data privacy is integral to the Bank’s
full compliance with RBI guidelines. reliability and minimal technical
mission to become India’s most
disruptions, solidifying our position
valuable bank and ensure that it can » Comprehensive Privacy Controls
as a trusted payments partner.
uphold its promise of ‘Har raah dil se The Bank has implemented robust
open’. Recognising the importance of privacy measures, encompassing » API Ecosystem and Data Security
safeguarding personal information, user access management, network Our API–driven ecosystem
we implement rigorous processes and security, secure configurations continues to expand, with more
technology frameworks to protect and database security. These than 850 partners and 5,000
customer data. foundational measures reinforce developers actively engaging
operational resilience and through our cloud–based
Our Approach to Data Protection
customer confidence. integration platform and sandbox
» Structured Data Management » Privacy in Payments Innovation environment. Over 460 APIs have
been published, enabling strategic
We diligently classify data into The Bank maintains a leading
collaborations with major partners
Personally Identifiable Information position with about 30% of the
like Flipkart, Google, and Airtel.
(PII), Sensitive Personal Data market share in the evolving
The API Security Guard Rails Policy
Identification (SPDI), and non– landscape of UPI payments. Our
provides stringent, controlled,
PII/SPDI categories, conducting commitment to seamless and
and monitored data access across
comprehensive privacy impact secure customer experiences is
public, private and enterprise APIs.
assessments for every initiative. evident through innovations such
194
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Cyber security and data privacy
» Personalised Customer processes, advanced testing governance frameworks and
Experiences methodologies, and real–time mature cloud infrastructure, we
The Bank’s commitment to incident management. Our ensure comprehensive governance,
personalisation fosters deeper ongoing efforts to integrate Site enhanced resiliency, strong
customer engagement through Reliability Engineering (SRE) security, real–time monitoring,
tailored experiences, dynamic practices and AI–driven operational and effective incident response.
dashboards, gamified interactions, analytics will further enhance Integrating Machine Learning (ML)
smart expense forecasting, and infrastructure stability and rapid operations into our Data Lakehouse
virtual financial assistants. These incident resolution. will reinforce our commitment to
initiatives operate under rigorous secure, transparent, and trusted
» Enterprise Architecture and
privacy standards, ensuring secure data usage.
Cloud Leadership
and trusted customer interactions.
Our forward–looking approach to
» Strengthening enterprise architecture and cloud
Operational Resiliency capabilities is exemplified by the
Operational resiliency remains successful deployment of Data
central to our strategy, supported Lakehouse, utilising Iceberg on
by automated disaster recovery Cloud. With robust open–source
Developing and
maintaining
advanced digital
and data
capabilities
Driving cost Enhancing
efficiency operational
and maximising efficiency
return through innovative
on investment solutions
Our Focus
Areas
The Bank is dedicated to
achieving technological
excellence and
innovation within a
secure, resilient, and
efficient banking system
Ensuring the
Empowering
highest standards
customers and
of security and
employees
reliability across
through reimagined
IT operations
journeys
195
Governance
THOUGHT LEADERSHIP AND POLICY ADVOCACY
Translating ideas into
impactful change
We drive conversations
that lead the way to
long–term change.
Through proactive
thought leadership,
strategic policy
engagement, and global
collaboration, we are
shaping a future–ready,
inclusive financial
ecosystem equipped to
address the challenges of
tomorrow.
Participation in Key Global Platforms
World Economic Forum’s (WEF) Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders
Axis Bank is a proud member of the The Bank actively contributed as
Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders part of the Steering Committee in
of the World Economic Forum and the shaping of a joint industry survey
actively engages in the Alliance’s conducted by the Confederation
Material Issues Linkage
research and policy advocacy of Indian Industry (CII) and WEF
M14 initiatives. The Alliance is currently on national climate solutions. This
focusing on three key thematic areas survey aims to inform a forthcoming
to drive action: whitepaper, offering insights and
Capital Linkage
recommendations to facilitate
» Decarbonising materials and the
increased private sector investments
supply chain
in natural climate solutions. The
» Catalysing India’s Bank actively participates in other
SDGs Impacted hydrogen economy initiatives under the Alliance,
focusing on green hydrogen and
» Developing a business model
environmental conservation.
to protect old forests and
promote afforestation
196
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Thought leadership and policy advocacy
Industry Collaboration and Policy Inputs
FICCI Committee Meetings Government Consultations Case Studies and Publications
» Feedback on Digital Personal Inputs to Department of » Axis Bank – Redis
Data Protection (DPDP) Act Commerce on: Mobile Banking
– April & February 2024 – Case Study – June 2024 –
» Classifying Export Finance
Damini Marwah Avinash Raghavendra
as PSL
» Credit Card policy inputs – » Sustainable Agriculture Project
» Setting up an International
May 2024 & paper finalised in Case Studies featured in
Arbitration Centre in
July 2024 – Sanjeev Moghe FICCI–Yes Bank Compendium
GIFT City
– October & November 2024
» Inputs on Regulatory
» Enabling video KYC for NRIs (Agriculture Based
Compliance Review – January
& Special Rupee Vostro Finance – ABF)
2025 – Bimal Bhattacharyya
Accounts – November 2024
» Submissions on Bank–Fintech
Partnerships – July 2024
– Sameer Shetty (including
Media and Public Thought Strategic Papers and
meeting with RBI Fintech ED)
Leadership Recommendations
» Review of export–import
regulations – September 2024 » CNBC TV18 Podcasts: » Draft Paper: Agenda for the
– Neeraj Gambhir ‘AI Dialogues’ – April 2024 New Government – May 2024
» Contribution to Digital – Avinash Raghavendra – Neelkanth Mishra
Lending Framework – July » CNBC TV18 Podcasts: » Pre–budget recommendations
2024 – Sameer Shetty ‘AI Dialogues’ – August 2024 & quote – July 2024
» Pre– and Post–Union – Anoop Manohar – Amitabh Chaudhry
Budget 2023–24 inputs » WEF Blog: Investing in » Feedback on PM
– July & February 2025 – People – December 2024 Internship Yojana Draft –
Amitabh Chaudhry – Amitabh Chaudhry September 2024
– Rajkamal Vempati
» World CX Summit 2024
CII Engagements Compendium – Article on » Working Groups:
Future of Customer
− Cyber security
» Thought Leadership Experience – August 2024 Strengthening
– Shruthi Bopaiah
Paper: Preparing for Viksit
− Aligning PSL Framework
Bharat – August 2024 –
to National Priorities
Amitabh Chaudhry
» Submission to CII National
Banking Committee –
January 2025 – Rajiv Anand
» Inputs on climate finance
terminology – October 2024
– Abhejit Agarwal
197
Governance
Representation on Industry Platforms in Fiscal 2025
Amitabh Chaudhry Rajkamal Vempati
(MD&CEO) (President – Human Resources)
» Chairman of the FICCI National » Member of the Advisory Board of the
Banking Committee Centre of Gender Equality and Inclusive
» Author/Contributor with the World Leadership, XLRI
Economic Forum » Member of CII National HR Council
» Member of the CII Davos Steering Committee » Co–Chair of FICCI HR Committee
Rajiv Anand
(Deputy Managing Director) Sameer Shetty
» Member of CII National Committee on Banking (Group Executive – Digital Business and
Transformation)
» Chair of the Working Group on Payment
» Member of the FICCI Working Group on
Aggregators under the aegis of CII
Banks–Fintech Partnership under the aegis
Banking Committee
of FICCI National Banking Committee
» Member of the CII Regulatory Reforms
» Member of the Jury of Finacle–Infosys
Working Group (Agenda Initiative)
Innovation Awards
» Member of the CII Working Groups – Cyber
» Member of CII National Committee
Security and PSL
on FinTech
» Member of the Jury of FICCI
Fintech Awards
Arjun Chowdhry
(Group Executive – Affluent Banking, Retail
Lending, NRI, Cards & Payments)
Bimal Bhattacharyya
» Member of the Visa Asia–Pacific
(President & Group Chief Audit Executive)
Client Council
» Member of the CII Working Group on
» Member of the CII Joint Working Group
Regulatory Reforms
of India–Australia CEO’s Forum
Damini Marwah
Neeraj Gambhir (President – Legal and Chief Ethics Officer)
(Group Executive – Treasury
» Member of ASSOCHAM Steering
& Markets and Wholesale Banking Products)
Committee on Insolvency & Bankruptcy
» Member of FICCI National Banking Committee Code and Valuation
» Member of Global Debt Market Initiatives » Member of the CII National Committee on
» Board Member at FIMMDA (International) Regulatory Affairs
» Member of Treasury and Global Markets, RBI » Member of the CII Taskforce on
Insolvency and Bankruptcy
» Member of the FICCI Taskforce on DPDP
Act 2024
198
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Thought leadership and policy advocacy
Representation on Industry Platforms in Fiscal 2025
Sanjeev Moghe Nitin Anand
(President – Cards) (Senior Vice President – MNC,
» Member of the FICCI Sub–working Group NEG & FS Group)
on Credit Card issues » Member of the FICCI LAC Regional Council
Vivek Gupta Piyali Reddy
(President – Wholesale Banking Products) (Senior Vice President & Head – Corporate
» Jury Member of the NPCI–IAMAI Global Communications)
Fintech Awards » Jury Member of the Haymarkets Asia PR and
» Member of the Standing Advisory/Expert Comms Awards 2024
Committee of IFSC Authority
Abhejit Agarwal Anoop Manohar
(Senior Vice President & Head – (Chief Marketing Officer)
Sustainability and CSR) » Member of ASSOCHAM National Branding
» Member of the FICCI Task Force on ESG and Marketing Council
» Member of the CII Climate Change Council » Jury Member of the Advisory Board of CX
India Summit and Awards
» Member of the CII Net Zero Council
» Jury Member of the ET BrandEquity Awards
» Member of the Advisory Board – Centre
for Development Policy and Management,
IIM Udaipur
Dhruvi Shah
(Executive Trustee and CEO – Axis Bank
Foundation)
Ashish RS Sharma
(Senior Vice President – Financial Crime Intelligence) » Member of FICCI Task Force on Climate
» Member (Industry Expert), Board of Studies, Change and Sustainable Agriculture
SIES College » Member of the CSR Committee of Bombay
Chamber of Commerce and Industry
» Member of the CII Council on Women
Harish Iyer
Empowerment and Inclusion
(Senior Vice President – Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion) » Jury Member of FICCI Agri Startup Awards
» Member of the Advisory Board of ET
Global DE&I Alliance
Munish Sharda
(Executive Director – Bharat Banking)
» Member of the ICC India Working Group
on Digitalisation and FinTechs
199
Governance
Bank’s Representation Speaker or Panellist at Key Conferences and Seminars during Fiscal 2025
Speaker Organiser Event Topic
Amitabh Chaudhry Future Talent Future Talent Summit The Future of AI, Work, and
MD & CEO Council Education
Rajiv Anand IBA IBA–IBFed Conference Mobilising Climate Finance for
Sustainable Growth
Deputy Managing
Director
Rajiv Anand India Today India Today Smart Money A Changing Landscape:
Financial Summit Technology & Innovation in
Deputy Managing
Financial Services
Director
Rajkamal Vempati ET ET HR World Nextech HR Tech Trends
HR summit
President –
Human Resources
Abhejit Agarwal ET Edge Times Now Global Sustainability Narratives of Green
Alliance 3rd Edition of Transformation: Empowering
Head – Sustainability
Sustainable Organisations 2024 Businesses with Innovation and
and CSR
Sustainable Technologies
Rajiv Anand Climate Bond India Conference on Climate Seizing Opportunities and
Risks and Sustainable Finance Mitigating Risks in the Era
Deputy Managing Initiative
of Climate Crises: How can
Director
Industry Accelerate Action?
Abhijit Dey IDC India Financial Services Summit Transformative Potential of
Connected Finance
Vice President – DBAT
Avinash Raghavendra Nasdaq The Dance of Innovation and Powering Compliance:
Stability: Banks and Regulatory Leveraging RegTech for Cloud
President – Information
changes in India’s evolving and Data Security in the Indian
Technology
Regulatory Landscape Banking Landscape
Harish Iyer ET Now ET Now Diversity and Inclusion People, Purpose, Pride: The
Summit Promise of the Pink Economy
Senior Vice President –
Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion
200
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Thought leadership and policy advocacy
Membership Fees Paid
The details of membership fees paid by the Bank for fiscal 2025*
IBA World Economic Forum FICCI
₹75.00 lakhs ₹1.72 crores ₹1.50 lakhs
CII BCCI ASSOCHAM
₹3.30 lakhs ₹0.75 lakhs ₹1.50 lakhs
*exclusive of applicable taxes
KEY EVENTS AT THE CORPORATE OFFICE
Abhisaran: Partnership CSO
Abhisaran 2025 saw leaders from
across the social impact ecosystem
convening for two energising days at
our Mumbai corporate office, sparking
dialogue on the future of philanthropy,
CSR, and non–profit strategy. With
a strong focus on collaboration, the
event championed the power of
collective action, shared storytelling,
and cross–sectoral partnerships to
drive meaningful, scalable change.
Wide Angle Season 9
Dia Mirza, a sustainability champion,
took the stage at WIDE ANGLE
Season 9, a thought leadership
series for employees. She offered a
thought–provoking perspective on
environmental responsibility and
inspired our employees to rethink their
impact on nature and advised on how
to embrace responsible change.
201
Interplay of capitals
INTERPLAY OF CAPITALS
Capitals not only contribute to other capitals but can also enhance themselves
through internal reinvestment, development, or transformation. This dynamic
synergy strengthens our ability to serve stakeholders, adapt, grow inclusively,
and stay ahead in an evolving financial ecosystem.
From/To capitals Financial Manufactured Intellectual Human Social and Relationship Natural
Steady capital mobilisation enabled Capital was deployed to expand our Investment in digital transformation Capital was directed towards scaling our CSR investments of ₹427 crores were Scaling sustainable financing, new green
Financial
investments across physical, digital branch and ATM footprint across enhanced core banking systems, CRM, learning platforms, talent acquisition, and channelled towards furthering livelihoods, capital raising, moving on glide path for
and human capital. Key enablers 693 districts. Strategic investments analytics, and AI–driven interfaces, employee wellbeing initiatives, fostering a education, health, financial inclusion, reducing exposure to coal and thermal
included sustained improvement in were made in expanding digital and accelerating innovation and speed–to– resilient workforce. environment, sports and humanitarian relief, power, committing to incremental financing
core operating profit and disciplined rural infrastructure. market. touching over 1 million participants across of Rs 60,000 crores by 2030 in
cost controls. India this fiscal. wholesale banking.
Deposit mobilisation (↑10% y–o–y) Over 250 new Bharat Banking Integrated platforms such as ‘Open’ High–touch phygital infrastructure Bharat–focused infrastructure enabled the Green branches and energy–efficient
Manufactured
and rural advances (↑7%) were branches and 13,941 ATMs/CDMs by Axis and neo expanded access and supported employee enablement and delivery of high–quality services – from infrastructure contributed to lower
powered by our extensive physical ensured deep coverage across digitised services. Unified systems onboarding across roles and locations, government partnerships (e.g. Smart Cities) emissions, while water management facilities
and digital distribution across India. semi–urban and rural regions. ensured seamless physical and digital including 4,000+ branch banking officers. to Direct Benefit Transfer. enhanced sustainability outcomes.
delivery.
The Bank’s ‘Open’ by Axis now Proprietary platforms supported 135+ open APIs, 850+ fintech Learning platforms like Open Learning Our CX design platforms (Kaleidoscope) and Proprietary digital tools enabled smart energy
Intellectual
contributes ~6% to the overall customer journeys across both partnerships, and 460+ live integrations Lab and Capability Factories enhanced idea generation initiatives (Ignite) enabled management, emissions tracking, and ESG
franchise. In fiscal 2025, platforms retail and wholesale banking. Tech helped create a vibrant digital employee skilling across ESG, tech, and continuous service improvement and portfolio evaluation across operations
like Adi, ‘Siddhi’, and neo accelerated upgrades enabled end–to–end ecosystem. frontline roles. innovation.
productivity, enhanced decision– digitisation.
making, and strengthened CX design
platforms.
Workforce productivity increased, Investments in employee amenities, Structured capability–building programs 6 million+ learning hours clocked; 97% Through initiatives like Axis Cares and Training on climate action, health & safety,
Human
with profit per employee of ₹0.25 flexible workspaces and safety (1,000 Change Leaders, Thrive) employees active on the Open Learning ‘Siddhi’, employees engaged in CSR, DE&I, and ESG literacy empowered employees to
crores. Engagement and diversity protocols enabled a future–ready enhanced managerial and leadership Lab. Skill Factories and academies and financial inclusion drives, enhancing contribute to responsible banking goals.
metrics improved, with 27.7% women workplace. capabilities across the Bank. developed domain–specific talent. organisational culture.
representation.
Strong customer franchise across Our network of 28,000+ CSCs and Customer–centric innovations like Axis Dil Se and Foundation programs built Community programs across livelihoods, Social programs promoted climate–resilient
Social and
Retail, Bharat, and Wholesale 2,736 Bharat branches enabled ‘Benefits Dashboard’, Digital Unboxing, trust with 2 million+ rural families. Pride education, and inclusion scaled up livelihoods (e.g. solar irrigation, watershed
Relationship
segments drove fee income (↑11%) last–mile access and improved and ‘Siddhi’ drove ~80% digital by Axis scored high on engagement. significantly; Mission 4 Million launched in management) and aligned with national
and sustained market share across customer service across India. activation in cards. fiscal 2025. climate goals.
UPI, cards and MSME.
Our ESG–aligned portfolio includes Four large offices now run entirely Building capability for climate Enhanced focus on wellness, occupational ESG governance embedded into operations ~3.27 million trees planted since 2022
Natural
green bonds, EV loans and ₹48,412 on renewable energy; ~3.27 stress testing and scenario analysis, health, and climate–related training with a Board–level ESG Committee; Bank– (including target of 2 million tree plantations,
crores in cumulative ESG sanctions by million trees planted under habitat proprietary ESG rating tool, TCFD– reinforced environmental awareness. wide initiatives reinforced environmental Miyawaki plantations and other tree
fiscal 2025 since fiscal 2022. restoration commitments. aligned disclosures, and ESG lending stewardship. plantation programs); Scope 1–2–3 emission
policy integrated across reductions aligned with glide path; smart
enterprise systems. water, paper and energy use reduced
footprint.
202 203
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Awards & Recognitions
Honours that inspire us
Best Bank for Talent and Workforce Best Digital Bank of the Year
Derivatives House Bank of the Year
Future of Trust
of the Year Award
Most Effective Credit/Debit Reinvention Awards 2025
Card Marketing Campaign APAC Innovator of the Year
ICAI Silver Shield for Domestic Trade Finance Bank Sustainable Agriculture Award
Excellence in Financial of the Year Digital Tx Bank of 2024 Sustainable Farmer
Reporting for fiscal 2024 the Year (Project neo) Income Enhancement in 2023
204
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory reports
206 Board’s report
234 Management’s discussion and analysis
277 Corporate governance
324 Business responsibility and sustainability report
Financial statements
325 Independent auditor’s report – Standalone financial statements
332 Standalone financial statements
431 Independent auditor’s report – Consolidated financial statements
442 Consolidated financial statements
500 Form AOC–1
502 Basel III disclosures
205
Statutory reports
Board’s report
Dear Members,
Your Board of Directors (the “Board”) is pleased to present its 31st Board’s report on the performance of Axis Bank Limited
(the “Bank”) together with the audited financial statements for fiscal 2025.
Financial Performance and State of the Bank’s Affairs
The Bank provides a complete suite of banking products and financial services covering retail banking, wholesale banking
and treasury operations and is the third largest private sector bank in India in terms of total assets, based on public filings of
private sector banks. The Bank’s total assets increased from `1,477,209 crores as at 31 March, 2024 to `1,609,930 crores
as at 31 March, 2025. Furthermore, total deposits increased from `1,068,641 crores as at 31 March, 2024 to `1,172,952
crores as at 31 March, 2025 and total advances increased from `965,068 crores as at 31 March, 2024 to `1,040,811 crores
as at 31 March, 2025.
Operating revenue increased by 10% year-on-year (“Y-o-Y”) to `79,605 crores in fiscal 2025. Net Interest Income (“NII”)
increased 9% to `54,348 crores in fiscal 2025. Non-interest income consisting of fee, trading and other income increased
by 13% to `25,257 crores in fiscal 2025. Operating expenses grew 6% to `37,500 crores in fiscal 2025. As a result, the
operating profit grew by 13% to `42,105 crores. Provisions and contingencies increased by 91% to `7,759 crores in fiscal
2025. Net profit grew by 6% to `26,373 crores in fiscal 2025.
The financial highlights (standalone) for the year under review, are presented below:
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 Growth
Balance sheet:
Deposits 1,172,952 1,068,641 10%
Savings bank deposits 311,389 302,132 3%
Current account deposits 166,799 157,268 6%
Term deposits 694,764 609,241 14%
Advances 1,040,811 965,068 8%
Retail advances 622,897 583,265 7%
Non-retail advances 417,914 381,803 9%
Total assets / liabilities 1,609,930 1,477,209 9%
Profit & loss account:
Net interest income 54,348 49,894 9%
Other income 25,257 22,442 13%
Fee income 22,504 20,257 11%
Trading profit1 2,059 1,731 19%
Miscellaneous income 694 454 53%
Operating expenses 37,500 35,213 6%
Operating profit 42,105 37,123 13%
Provisions and contingencies (other than tax) 7,759 4,063 91%
Profit before tax 34,346 33,060 4%
Provision for tax 7,973 8,199 (3%)
206 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 Growth
Net profit 26,373 24,861 6%
Balance in profit and loss account brought forward from previous year 60,254 44,145 -
Amount available for appropriation 86,627 69,006 -
Appropriations
Transfer to statutory reserve 6,593 6,215 -
Transfer to capital reserve 214 140 -
Transfer to investment reserve - 242 -
Transfer to special reserve 1,025 968 -
Transfer to investment fluctuation reserve 248 879 -
Dividend paid 309 308 -
Surplus carried over to balance sheet 78,238 60,254 -
1Excluding merchant exchange profit.
Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators 2024-25 2023-24
Interest income as a % of working funds1 8.10 8.05
Non-interest income as a % of working funds1 1.67 1.65
Net interest margin (%) 3.98 4.07
Return on average net worth (%) 16.52 18.86
Operating profit as a % of working funds1 2.78 2.73
Return on average assets (%) 1.74 1.83
Profit per employee2 (` in lacs) 25.45 25.29
Business (Deposits less inter-bank deposits + advances) per employee2 (₹ in crores) 20.88 20.19
Net non-performing assets as a % of net customer assets3 0.33 0.31
1 Working funds represent average total assets.
2 Productivity ratios are based on average number of employees for the year.
3 Customer assets include advances and credit substitutes.
Previous fiscal year’s figures have been re-grouped, wherever necessary.
Financial Performance of the Group
Subsidiaries of the Bank continued to deliver steady performance. The domestic subsidiaries, collectively, reported a net
profit of `1,768 crores in fiscal 2025. This translates into a return on investment of 46%. Consolidated net profit of the group
for fiscal 2025 stood at `28,055 crores, growing 6% Y-o-Y. Consolidated return on equity for fiscal 2025 stood at 16.89%,
with subsidiaries contributing 37 bps.
Divergence in Asset Classification and Provisioning for NPAs
In terms of Reserve Bank of India (the “RBI”) guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergences in asset classification
and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements.
The disclosure is required if either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for NPAs
assessed by RBI exceeds 5% of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period; and (b) the
additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5% of the published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period.
Based on the above, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is required with respect to
RBI’s annual supervisory process for fiscal 2024.
207
Statutory reports
Dividend
In accordance with Regulation 43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”), the Bank has formulated and adopted a
Dividend Distribution Policy, which was reviewed by the Board. The said policy is available on the website of the Bank at
https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance. The Bank has been in compliance with its Dividend
Distribution Policy during the past three fiscal years.
In view of the overall performance of the Bank, while retaining capital to support future growth and in line with the Dividend
Distribution Policy, the Board at its meeting held on 24 April, 2025, recommended a final dividend of `1/- per equity share
of `2/- each fully paid (i.e., 50% of the face value), subject to the approval of members at the ensuing 31st Annual General
Meeting (the “AGM”). Upon approval, and in compliance to regulatory guidelines, the dividend will be paid to the members
whose names appear in the register of members of the Bank and in the statement of beneficiary position furnished by the
National Securities Depository Limited and the Central Depository Services (India) Limited as on the record date i.e., Friday,
4 July, 2025. The total dividend payout will be approximately `309 crores resulting in a payout of 1.17% of the standalone
profit after tax of the Bank. Additional shares issued by the Bank pursuant to exercise of stock options / stock units, until the
record date shall also be eligible for such proposed dividend. The total dividend payout shall stand modified accordingly. In
terms of the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, dividend income is taxable in the hands of the members, and therefore
will be subject to deduction of applicable tax.
In terms of Accounting Standard (“AS”) - 4 ‘Contingencies and Events Occurring After the Balance Sheet Date’ as notified by
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (the “MCA”) under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) read together with
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, such proposed dividend has
not been recognised as a liability as on 31 March, 2025.
Integrated Annual Report
In terms of SEBI circular dated 6 February, 2017, the Bank had voluntarily published its first Integrated Annual Report for
fiscal 2024, which included both financial and non-financial information and was based on the International Integrated
Reporting Framework (“IIRC”) and SEBI’s guidelines on Integrated reporting. For fiscal 2025, the Bank continues to
voluntarily publish the Integrated Annual Report. This report covers aspects such as organisation’s strategy, governance
framework, performance, risk management and prospects of value creation based on the six forms of capitals viz., financial
capital, intellectual capital, manufactured capital, human capital, social and relationship capital, and natural capital.
Capital Structure
Share Capital
During fiscal 2025, the Bank issued and allotted 10,798,691 equity shares of `2/- each, pursuant to exercise of stock
options / stock units by the Whole-Time Directors / employees of the Bank and of its subsidiary companies, under the
Bank’s Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2000-01 and Employee Stock Unit Scheme, 2022.
Consequent to the above, the total issued and paid-up equity share capital of the Bank increased by `2.16 crores to `619.47
crores as on 31 March, 2025, vis-à-vis `617.31 crores, as on 31 March, 2024. The equity shares issued under the above
schemes rank pari-passu with the existing equity shares of the Bank.
Apart from the above, the Bank did not raise any additional equity share capital during the year.
Debt Instruments
On 5 September, 2024, the Bank issued and allotted 3,92,500 fully paid, senior, rated, listed, unsecured, taxable, redeemable,
long term non-convertible debentures (Series–8) of face value of `100,000 each, aggregating to `3,925 crores, at a coupon
rate of 7.45% per annum on a private placement basis for enhancing long term resources for funding infrastructure and
affordable housing. The aforesaid debentures shall be redeemed at par on maturity on 5 September, 2034.
The Audit Committee of the Board (the “ACB”) at its meeting held on 17 October, 2024, has reviewed and confirmed that
the Bank has utilised the said funds for the above-mentioned purposes.
On 5 December, 2024, the Bank redeemed senior unsecured redeemable non-convertible debentures amounting to `5,705
crores. Further, on 12 February, 2025, the Bank also redeemed unsecured redeemable non-convertible fully paid up Basel III
compliant tier 2 bonds in the nature of debentures for inclusion in tier 2 capital (bonds) amounting to `850 crores.
208 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
Capital Adequacy Ratio
The Bank’s overall Capital Adequacy Ratio (“CAR”) under Basel III stood at 17.07% at the end of fiscal 2025, well above
the benchmark requirement of 11.50% stipulated by the RBI. Of this, the Common Equity Tier I (“CET I”) CAR was 14.67%
(against minimum regulatory requirement of 8.00%) and Tier I CAR was 15.07% (against minimum regulatory requirement of
9.50%). As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s Tier II CAR under Basel III stood at 2.00%.
Ratings of various Debt Instruments
The details of credit ratings obtained by the Bank along with any revisions thereto, if any, during fiscal 2025, for all the debt
instruments outstanding as on 31 March, 2025, are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, forming part of this
Integrated Annual Report.
Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates
Details of subsidiary and associate companies as on 31 March, 2025 are tabulated below:
Sr. Subsidiary/ Percentage stake held
Name of the Company Business Activity
No. Associate by the group
1. Axis Capital Limited Subsidiary Business of intermediation such as investment 100
banking, capital market advisory, private equity
advisory, M&A advisory and institutional equities.
2. Axis Finance Limited Subsidiary Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) offering 100
loans to corporates, MSME and retail customers.
3. Axis Securities Limited Subsidiary Retail broking services. 100
4. Axis Trustee Services Subsidiary Trusteeship activities and agency & administration 100
Limited services.
5. Freecharge Payment Subsidiary Merchant acquiring services, payment aggregation 100
Technologies Private services, payment support services, and business
Limited correspondent to a bank / financial institution.
6. Axis UK Limited1 Subsidiary - 100
7. Freecharge Business Subsidiary Business correspondent and technological service 100
and Technology Services provider to the Bank.
Limited
8. Axis Capital USA, LLC Step down Services relating to equity capital market, stock 100
subsidiary broking to institutional investors in USA. (held by
Axis Capital Limited)
9. Axis Asset Management Subsidiary Managing investment portfolios of the scheme(s) 75
Company Limited launched by Axis Mutual Fund, Axis Alternative
Investment Fund - category II & III and portfolios
under portfolio management services.
10. Axis Mutual Fund Subsidiary Trustee for the mutual fund business. 75
Trustee Limited
11. A.Treds Limited Subsidiary Facilitating financing of trade receivables. 67
12. Axis Pension Fund Step down Pension fund management business under the 47.27
Management Limited subsidiary National Pension System. (Axis Asset Management
Company Limited-51,
Axis Bank Limited-9.02)
13. Axis Max Life Insurance Associate Life insurance and long-term saving and protection 19.02
Limited2 products. (Axis Bank Limited-16.22
Axis Capital Limited-1.89,
Axis Securities Limited-0.93)
1 The banking license of subsidiary was cancelled by the UK regulators with effect from 24 October, 2024. Subsequently, the name of the Company
was changed from Axis Bank UK Ltd. to Axis UK Ltd. with effect from 1 November, 2024. The Company is into liquidation since 9 December, 2024.
2 Post receipt of regulatory approvals, Max Life Insurance Company Limited was officially rebranded to Axis Max Life Insurance Limited on
13 December, 2024.
As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank did not have any joint venture company.
209
Statutory reports
The financial position and performance of each of the Bank’s key subsidiary companies is given in the Management Discussion
& Analysis Report, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Consolidated Financial Statements
In accordance with the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, as
amended, the Bank has prepared its consolidated financial statements, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
The statement in form AOC-1 containing the salient features of the financial statements of the subsidiary companies and
associate company of the Bank, also forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
In accordance with the third proviso to Section 136(1) of the Act, the Integrated Annual Report of the Bank, containing
standalone financial statements and the consolidated financial statements and all other documents required to be attached
thereto is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/
annual-reports.
Further, in accordance with the fourth proviso to the said section, the audited financial statements of each of the subsidiary
companies are available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-
information/annual-reports. The said financial statements will be available for inspection by the members of the Bank
and trustees of debenture holders at the registered office of the Bank during business hours on all working days except
Saturdays, Sundays, bank holidays and National Holidays. Any member interested in obtaining a physical copy of the said
financial statements can send an email to the Company Secretary of the Bank at shareholders@axisbank.com.
Corporate Governance
The Bank is committed to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance and it constantly benchmarks itself with
the best national and global governance and disclosure practices.
The Report on Corporate Governance for fiscal 2025 along with general shareholder information forms part of this Integrated
Annual Report. M/s. M M Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 107122W/W100672), Joint
Statutory Auditors of the Bank, has issued a certificate confirming compliance with the provisions of corporate governance
by the Bank for fiscal 2025, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs
C, D and E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, and the same is attached along with the Report on Corporate
Governance.
The corporate governance framework of the Bank incorporates all the mandatory requirements as prescribed in the
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Bank has also adopted the non-mandatory requirements recommended in the SEBI Listing
Regulations, as detailed in the Report on Corporate Governance.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report
The Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report as stipulated under Regulation 34(2)(e) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Board of Directors
Appointment and Re-appointment of Directors
During fiscal 2025, pursuant to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (the “NRC”) and
based on performance evaluation, the Board at its meeting held on 17 January, 2025, re-appointed Prof. S. Mahendra
Dev as an Independent Director of the Bank for a further period of four years, with effect from 14 June, 2025 upto
13 June, 2029 (both days inclusive), subject to approval of the members of the Bank. He is not liable to retire by rotation.
The Board was of the opinion that Prof. S. Mahendra Dev has the integrity, expertise and requisite experience, which
is beneficial to the business interest of the Bank. Further, he is in compliance with the provisions of the Companies
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, with respect to enrolling his name in the online databank of
Independent Directors and qualifying the online proficiency self-assessment test for Independent Directors.
210 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
The members of the Bank approved the appointment of Pranam Wahi as an Independent Director of the Bank for a period
of four years with effect from 15 February, 2024 up to 14 February, 2028 (both days inclusive), vide postal ballot on
10 May, 2024.
Further, the members of the Bank at their 30th AGM held on 26 July, 2024 approved the re-appointment of Meena Ganesh,
Independent Director with effect from 1 August, 2024 up to 31 July, 2028 (both days inclusive) and re-appointment of
G. Padmanabhan, Independent Director with effect from 28 October, 2024 up to 27 October, 2028 (both days inclusive).
The members of the Bank also approved the re-appointment of Amitabh Chaudhry as the Managing Director & CEO of
the Bank with effect from 1 January, 2025 upto 31 December, 2027 (both days inclusive). The RBI vide its letter dated
24 October, 2024, has also approved the said re-appointment.
Mini Ipe, Non-Executive Director of the Bank (Nominee of Life Insurance Corporation of India, promoter of the Bank), is
liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM, and being eligible seeks re-appointment. Based on performance evaluation
and recommendation of the NRC, the Board recommends her re-appointment to the members of the Bank. Resolution in
respect of re-appointment of Mini Ipe is included in the notice convening the 31st AGM of the Bank.
None of the Bank’s directors are disqualified from being appointed as a director as specified in Section 164 of the Act. All
Directors have further confirmed that they are not debarred from holding the office of a director under any order from SEBI
or any other such authority.
Key Managerial Personnel
During the year, there was no change in the Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”). As on the date of this report, following
are the KMP’s as per Section 203(1) read with Section 2(51) of the Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Name of the KMP Designation
Amitabh Chaudhry Managing Director & CEO
Rajiv Anand Deputy Managing Director
Subrat Mohanty Executive Director
Munish Sharda Executive Director
Puneet Sharma Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer
Sandeep Poddar Company Secretary and Compliance officer
Selection and Appointment of Directors
The selection and appointment of Directors of the Bank is done in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act,
rules made thereunder, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the guidelines issued by the RBI and the relevant provisions of the
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Bank has formulated and adopted various policies with respect to selection and appointment
of Directors viz., Succession Planning Policy for the Board and Key Officials of the Bank, Policy on fit and proper criteria for
Directors of the Bank, Board Diversity Policy and Policy on Training of Directors, the details of which are provided in the
Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Declaration of Independence
All the Independent Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they meet the criteria prescribed for independence under the
provisions of Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and continue to comply with
the Code of Conduct laid down under Schedule IV of the Act.
The Board has assessed the veracity of the confirmations submitted by the Independent Directors and thereafter has taken
the same on record. There has been no change in the circumstances affecting their status as Independent Directors of the
Bank. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors are competent, experienced, proficient and possess necessary
expertise and integrity to discharge their duties and functions as Independent Directors. The names of all Independent
Directors are included in the data bank of Independent Directors maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors are independent of the management.
211
Statutory reports
Board Performance Evaluation
The Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations provide for evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, individual
Directors and the Chairperson of a Company.
The Bank has institutionalised the board performance evaluation process. The NRC annually reviews and approves the
criteria and the mechanism for carrying out the exercise effectively.
The methodology used for the annual board performance evaluation, the outcome, progress made over last year and the
proposed actions for implementation during fiscal 2026, are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
In terms of Section 134(3)(c) and 134(5) of the Act, the Directors hereby state that:
a) the applicable accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of the annual accounts for fiscal 2025.
b) accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently, and judgments and estimates made are reasonable and
prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at 31 March, 2025 and of the profit of the
Bank for the year ended on that date.
c) proper and sufficient care has been taken for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting fraud and other
irregularities.
d) the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
e) adequate internal financial controls to be followed by the Bank have been laid down and they are operating effectively.
f) proper and adequate systems have been devised to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and
these systems are operating effectively.
Meetings of the Board / Committees
The schedule in respect of the meetings of the Board / Committees to be held during the next fiscal year is circulated in
advance to all the members of the Board.
During fiscal 2025, nine meetings of the Board were held. Details of Board meetings, Board composition, Committee
meetings and Committee composition are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this
Integrated Annual Report.
Audit Committee of the Board
The composition, role and functions of the ACB is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this
Integrated Annual Report.
During fiscal 2025, the Board has accepted all the recommendations made by the ACB and hence, no further explanation
towards this is required to be provided, in this Report.
Related Party Transactions
During fiscal 2025, all the related party transactions were entered in the ordinary course of the business of the Bank and
on an arm’s length basis. Accordingly, there were no transactions entered during the fiscal year that fall under the scope of
Section 188(1) of the Act, hence, form AOC-2 is not applicable to the Bank.
The details of related party transactions are provided in note no. 2.5 of schedule 18 to the standalone financial statements
and in note no. 1.8 of schedule 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism
The Bank has formulated and adopted a whistle blower policy and vigil mechanism, details of which have been provided in
the Report on Corporate Governance which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
212 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
Adequacy of Internal Financial Controls related to Financial Statements
The Bank has laid down a system of internal financial controls with reference to its financial statements. The integrity and
reliability of the internal control systems are achieved through clear policies and procedures, process automation, training
and development of employees, and an organisation structure that segregates responsibilities. These controls are reviewed
and tested by the internal audit team to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records and the preparation
of reliable financial statements.
The internal financial controls of the Bank with respect to the financial statements are adequate and are operating effectively.
Plan and Status of Ind AS implementation
The RBI had issued a circular in February 2016 requiring banks to implement Indian Accounting Standards (“lnd AS”) and
prepare standalone and consolidated lnd AS financial statements with effect from 1 April, 2018. Banks were also required
to report the comparative financial statements for fiscal 2018, to be published along with the financial statements for the
year beginning 1 April, 2018. However, the RBI in its press release issued on 5 April, 2018 deferred the applicability of
lnd AS by one year (i.e., 1 April, 2019) for scheduled commercial banks. Further, RBI in a circular issued on 22 March, 2019
has deferred the implementation of lnd AS till further notice.
During fiscal 2017, the Bank had undertaken a preliminary diagnostic analysis of the GAAP differences between Indian GAAP
vis-à-vis lnd AS. The Bank has also identified and evaluated data gaps, processes and system changes required to implement lnd
AS. The Bank is in the process of implementing necessary changes in its IT systems wherever required and other processes in a
phased manner. The Bank is also submitting proforma lnd AS financial statements to RBI on a half-yearly basis.
In line with the RBI guidelines on lnd AS implementation, the Bank has formed a Steering Committee comprising of members
from the concerned functional areas, headed by the Deputy Managing Director. The Steering Committee reviews the
proforma Ind AS financial statements and provides guidance on critical areas of implementation on a periodic basis. A
progress report on the status of lnd AS implementation in the Bank is presented to the ACB and the Board on a quarterly
basis. Accounting impact on the application of Ind AS shall be recognised as and when it becomes statutorily applicable to
banks and in the manner so prescribed.
Remuneration Policy
The Bank has formulated and adopted a remuneration policy for its Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
and a remuneration policy for its Managing Director & CEO, Whole-Time Directors, material risk takers, control function
staff and other employees, in terms of the relevant provisions of Section 178 of the Act, the relevant rules made thereunder,
the SEBI Listing Regulations and guidelines / circulars issued by the RBI.
The details of the said policies have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this
Integrated Annual Report. The said policies are available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/corporate-governance in terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Share Based Employee Benefits
In order to enhance employee motivation, create a retention mechanism, usher in an ‘owner-manager’ culture, align the
interest of the key executives / employees with that of the shareholders in driving long-term value creation for the Bank,
achieve greater synergy between the Bank and its subsidiary and associate companies and enable employees to participate
in the Bank’s long-term growth and financial success, the following share based employee benefit schemes have been
implemented by the Bank:
• Axis Bank Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2000-01 (“ESOS”)
• Axis Bank Employee Stock Unit Scheme, 2022 (“ESUS”)
The aforesaid ESOS and ESUS are in compliance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations,
2021 [the “SEBI (SBEB and SE) Regulations”]. A certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of the Bank confirming that the
ESOS and ESUS have been implemented in accordance with the SEBI (SBEB and SE) Regulations and in accordance with the
resolutions passed by the members of the Bank, will be placed at the ensuing AGM.
213
Statutory reports
Disclosure as mandated under the provisions of Regulation 14 of the SEBI (SBEB and SE) Regulations, is available on the
website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
The above-mentioned schemes are also available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-
corner/corporate-governance.
Particulars of Employees
The information required pursuant to Section 197 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, in respect of Directors / employees of the Bank, is attached as Annexure 1 to this report.
In terms of Section 197(12) of the Act, read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, a statement showing the names and other particulars of the employees drawing
remuneration in excess of limits set out in said rules forms part of this report.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 136(1) of the Act, this Integrated Annual Report excluding the aforesaid
information, is being sent to the members of the Bank and others entitled thereto. The said information is available for
inspection by the members at the registered office of the Bank during business hours up to the date of the ensuing AGM.
Any member interested in obtaining a copy thereof, may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank at its registered office
or at shareholders@axisbank.com.
Information under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on prevention of sexual harassment of women at workplace. The Bank has
complied with the provisions relating to the constitution of internal committee under the Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The information relating to complaints received and redressed
during fiscal 2025 is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Auditors
Statutory Auditors
M/s. M M Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 107122W / W100672) and M/s. KKC &
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 105146W / W100621) were appointed as the Joint
Statutory Auditors of the Bank at the 30th AGM, to hold office from the conclusion of the 30th AGM until the conclusion
of the 33rd AGM, on such terms and conditions, including remuneration, as may be approved by the ACB, subject to the
approval of the RBI every year.
There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks or disclaimers made in the statutory auditors’ report which forms
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank has framed a policy on ‘Appointment of Statutory Auditors’ and has also
identified internal set of evaluation criteria for assessing the goodness of fit in terms of experience and eligibility for the audit
firms including auditor independence.
Secretarial Auditor
The Bank has voluntarily adopted a policy on ‘Appointment of Secretarial Auditors’, duly approved by the Board, on the
recommendations of the ACB, which, inter alia, provides for the selection, appointment and rotation of Secretarial Auditors,
which was reviewed by the Board.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act read with the relevant provisions of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board, based
on the recommendation of the ACB, has appointed M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries (Firm Registration
No. P1981MH043700), as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank, for a term of five consecutive years, commencing from fiscal
2026 to fiscal 2030, subject to approval of the members of the Bank at the ensuing AGM. M/s. Bhandari & Associates have
confirmed their eligibility for appointment as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank under the provisions of Section 204 of the
Act, Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Auditing Standards on Audit Engagement (“CSAS-1”) issued by The
Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSl”).
214 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
The Secretarial audit report for fiscal 2025 is attached as Annexure 2 to this report. There are no qualifications, reservations,
adverse remarks or disclaimers made by the Secretarial Auditors of the Bank, in their report.
In terms of SEBI master circular dated 11 November, 2024, relating to Annual Secretarial Compliance Report, the Bank has
appointed M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries, for issuing the aforesaid report for fiscal 2025. The Bank will
submit the Annual Secretarial Compliance Report to the stock exchanges within the prescribed statutory timelines.
Disclosure under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999
The Bank has obtained a certificate from KKC & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No.
105146W/W100621), Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, that it is in compliance with provision of the Foreign Exchange
Management Act, 1999 with respect to investments made in its consolidated subsidiaries and associate during fiscal 2025.
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has obtained a certificate from
M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries, confirming that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank have
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Companies either by the SEBI or the
MCA or any other statutory / regulatory authorities. The said certificate is attached as Annexure 3 to this report.
Reporting of Frauds by Auditors
Pursuant to Section 143(12) of the Act, and circular issued by the National Financial Reporting Authority dated 26 June, 2023,
there were 3 instances amounting to `16.62 crores of frauds committed during fiscal 2025, by the officers or employees of
the Bank and reported by the Statutory Auditors to the ACB.
The details required under Rule 13(4) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 are as under:
Approximate
Sr. Nature of the fraud with amount
Remedial actions taken
No. description involved
(in ` lakhs)
1. Cheating & Forgery: 1,298.04 • Police complaint filed leading to arrest of some suspects
Third party mobile number/ • Stringent disciplinary action taken against the involved staff including
email id updated in the terminating of service.
customer’s Corporate • Fraud Monitoring Return (“FMR”) reported to the RBI.
Internet Banking by
• Insurance claim has been raised.
submission of fake documents
with forged signatures • Below controls implemented to prevent recurrences of such frauds.
and thereafter multiple - Restricting updation of e-mail id, mobile number, authorized
unauthorised transactions/ signatory, mode of operation, Corporate Internet Banking (“CIB”)
debits undertaken from user ID addition / deletion to home branch only.
customer’s account by staff.
- Additional due diligence to be conducted of Bearer submitting such
request.
- Seeking mobile bill / related evidence to verify the credentials
(name) in which the mobile number is issued.
- Restrict CIB access for non-authorized signatories. CIB access to
be enabled only post on-boarding the proposed user as authorized
signatory / related party in Bank records.
215
Statutory reports
Approximate
Sr. Nature of the fraud with amount
Remedial actions taken
No. description involved
(in ` lakhs)
2. Misappropriation & Criminal 249.85 • Fraudulently updated mobile number has been delinked from the bank
Breach of Trust: account of the customer.
Bank staff misappropriated • Post lodgment of complaint by customer, the staff was arrested by Police.
customer funds by executing As per verbal information received from police authorities, bank staff
multiple fraudulent debit has admitted having misappropriated funds of customer and recovery of
transactions in the Saving and `25.00 lakh has been made from the accounts of bank staff maintained
OD accounts of the customer with other banks.
through mobile app without • Amount (pertaining to savings account) has been refunded to the
customer’s knowledge. customer.
• FMR reported to the RBI.
• Insurance claim has been initiated. Insurance company has appointed
surveyor for the case. Bank is currently following up with insurance
company for status.
• Feasibility for creating additional check point of telephonic interaction
by digital lending team for high value Digital OD against FD cases is
being currently assessed.
3. Misappropriation & Criminal 114.00 • The Bank investigated the case and took necessary disciplinary action by
Breach of Trust: terminating the involved staff and others responsible for the identified
Joint custodians lapses.
misappropriated cash from • Additionally, a police complaint was filed in the matter, leading to the
the branch vault and executed arrest of the branch staff by authorities.
fraudulent transactions in • FMR reported to the RBI. Insurance claim has been initiated.
customer accounts.
• The Bank has proactively credited affected customer accounts after a
thorough investigation and verification, ensuring minimal disruption to
customer trust and service.
During fiscal 2025, pursuant to Section 143(12) of the Act, the Secretarial Auditors of the Bank have not reported any
instances of frauds committed in the Bank by its officers or its employees.
Secretarial Standards
The Bank is in compliance with the applicable Secretarial Standards, i.e., SS-1 and SS-2, relating to ‘Meetings of the Board of
Directors’ and ‘General Meetings’, respectively issued by the ICSI. The Bank has also voluntarily adopted the recommendatory
‘Secretarial Standard on Dividend’ (“SS-3”) and ‘Secretarial Standard on Report of the Board of Directors’ (“SS-4”) issued by
the ICSI.
Risk Management
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has constituted the Risk Management Committee of the
Board which is chaired by an Independent Director. The details of the said Committee and its terms of reference are set out
in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
The Bank has formulated and adopted a robust risk management framework. Whilst the Board is responsible for framing,
implementing and monitoring the risk management framework, it has delegated its powers relating to monitoring, reviewing
and identification of elements of risks associated with the business of the Bank to the said Committee. The details of the
risk management framework and issues related thereto have been disclosed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Report, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Bank has been formally undertaking Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) activities since 2006, with the founding of
Axis Bank Foundation (“ABF”). With the introduction of Section 135 of the Act making CSR mandatory, the Bank expanded
its spectrum of activities to undertake interventions across India in identified themes, directly, through ABF and through
credible implementation partners.
216 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 135 of the Act, read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules,
2014 (“CSR Rules”), as amended from time to time, the Bank has constituted the CSR Committee of the Board which is
chaired by an Independent Director.
The Bank formulated and adopted a CSR policy which provides the focus areas (in accordance with Schedule VII of the Act)
under which various developmental initiatives are undertaken.
The composition of the CSR Committee, CSR policy and projects / programs approved by the Board are available on the
website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/csr/social-responsibility.
The Annual Report on CSR activities of the Bank during fiscal 2025, in accordance with the CSR Rules, is attached as
Annexure 4 to this report. Further details on CSR activities also form part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
In terms of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, top 1000 listed entities based on their market capitalisation
as on 31 March, every year, were required to submit Business Responsibility Report (“BRR”), as a part of their annual report.
In November 2018, the MCA constituted a committee to revise the National Voluntary Guidelines (“NVG”) on which the
BRR was based, which were subsequently revised and released as the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
(“NGRBC”) in 2019. Further, the BRR was aligned to the NGRBC, and renamed and released as the Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) in 2020.
SEBI vide circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12 July, 2023, as amended from time to time,
updated the format of BRSR to include BRSR Core which is a set of key performance indicators / metrics under nine
ESG attributes. SEBI further mandated the top 150 listed companies (by market capitalisation) to undertake a reasonable
assurance of the BRSR Core from fiscal 2024.
The Bank’s BRSR for fiscal 2025 along with the reasonable assurance statement from SGS India Private Limited is available
on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/business-
responsibility-report.
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption, Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The particulars as prescribed under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules,
2014 is attached as Annexure 5 to this report.
Annual Return
The annual return in Form MGT-7 as on 31 March, 2025, as mandated under the provisions of Section 92(3) read with
Section 134(3)(a) of the Act, has been uploaded on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-
corner/shareholders-information/annual-return.
Other Disclosures
• Change in the nature of business: There has been no change in the nature of business of the Bank.
• Significant and material order passed by regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern status and
future operations of the Bank: There were no significant and / or material orders passed by any regulator, court or
tribunals against the Bank, which could impact its going concern status or future operations.
• Deposits: Being a banking company, the disclosures relating to deposits as required under Rule 8(5)(v) & (vi) of the
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, read with Sections 73 and 74 of the Act, are not applicable.
• Material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Bank: There were no material changes and
commitments affecting the financial position of the Bank, between the end of the fiscal year to which the financial
statements relate and the date of this report.
217
Statutory reports
• Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments: Pursuant to Section 186(11) of the Act, the provisions of Section
186 of the Act, except sub-section (1), do not apply to a loan made, guarantee given, or security provided by a banking
company in the ordinary course of its business. The particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed in
schedule 8 of the financial statements as per the applicable provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
• Maintenance of cost records: Being a banking company, provisions of Section 148(1) of the Act, relating to maintenance
of cost records is not applicable.
• Proceedings under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016: There is no application or proceeding pending against the
Bank under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 during the year under review.
• One-Time Settlement: There was no instance of one-time settlement with any other Bank or financial institution
during the year under review.
Annexures
The following statements / reports / certificates are annexed to the Board’s Report:
1. Disclosures pursuant to Section 197(12) read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
2. Secretarial Audit Report pursuant to Section 204 of the Act and Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
3. Certificate from Secretarial Auditor on non-disqualification of Directors pursuant to Regulation 34(3) read with
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
4. Annual Report on CSR activities of the Bank for fiscal 2025.
5. The particulars of Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption, and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo as
prescribed under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
Acknowledgements and Appreciations
The Board places on record its gratitude to the Government of India, RBI, MCA, SEBI, other statutory and regulatory
authorities, financial institutions, stock exchanges, registrar and share transfer agent, debenture trustees, depositories and
correspondent banks for their ongoing support and guidance.
The Board would also like to extend its sincere gratitude to each of its valued customers for the continued patronage and to
all the members of the Bank for the ongoing support.
The Board also expresses its heartfelt thanks and appreciation to each employee and their families for their continued
commitment towards the Bank and its customers, who by exhibiting strong work ethics, professionalism, teamwork and
initiatives, helped the Bank continue to serve its depositors and customers and reinforce its customer centric reputation
despite the challenging environment.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Mumbai N. S. Vishwanathan
Date: 25 April, 2025 Chairman
218 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
Annexure 1
DISCLOSURE ON REMUNERATION
[Pursuant to Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
(i) The ratio of the remuneration of each Director of the Bank to the median remuneration of the employees of
the Bank for the fiscal 2025 and the percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial
Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the fiscal 2025, is as under:
Ratio of remuneration to % increase in the
Name of the Directors Designation median remuneration of remuneration in the fiscal
all employees2 2025
N. S. Vishwanathan Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman 8.0 NA
Girish Paranjpe Independent Director 9.3 NA
Meena Ganesh Independent Director 8.7 NA
G. Padmanabhan Independent Director 6.8 NA
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Independent Director 9.4 NA
P. N. Prasad Independent Director 7.7 NA
CH SS Mallikarjunarao Independent Director 7.6 NA
Pranam Wahi Independent Director 7.3 NA
Mini Ipe Non-Executive Nominee Director 8.5 NA
Amitabh Chaudhry Managing Director & CEO 101.8 5.23
Rajiv Anand Deputy Managing Director 66.5 6.37
Subrat Mohanty Executive Director 54.0 6.34
Munish Sharda Executive Director 54.0 6.34
Puneet Sharma Group Executive & Chief Financial Officer 32.9 7.23
Sandeep Poddar Company Secretary 17.9 5.50
1 T he Bank has considered the annualized fixed pay for computation of ratios and percentage increase in remuneration. Fixed pay includes
salary, allowances, retiral benefits as well as value of perquisites as approved by the RBI. Variable pay has been excluded from the same.
2 All confirmed employees (excluding front line sales force), as on 31 March, 2025 have been considered.
3 All the Independent Directors and Nominee Director of the Bank were paid sitting fees of ₹100,000 for every meeting of the Board,
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee of the Board, Committee of Directors, Risk Management Committee and
IT & Digital Strategy Committee, attended by them. In respect of other Committees of the Board, sitting fees of ₹75,000 was paid to
the Directors. Further, all the Independent Director of the Bank were paid sitting fees of `100,000 for attending every meeting of the
Independent Directors. In accordance with the RBI circular dated 26 April, 2021 on ‘Corporate Governance in Banks - Appointment of
Directors and Constitution of Committees of the Board’, the Bank has paid fixed remuneration to its Non-Executive Nominee Director and
Independent Directors (except the Independent Part-Time Chairman) within the prescribed limit of ₹30 lakh per annum per Director.
(ii) The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees of the Bank during the fiscal 2025:
The median remuneration of employees of the Bank increased by 4.3% in fiscal 2025, as compared to fiscal 2024.
(iii) The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025:
The Bank had 104,453 permanent employees on its rolls as on 31 March, 2025.
(iv) Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees of the Bank other than its managerial personnel
during the last fiscal year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration (“KMPs”)
and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial
remuneration:
• Average remuneration increase for non-managerial personnel of the Bank during fiscal 2025 was 8.03%.
• The average remuneration increase for the managerial personnel (KMPs) of the Bank was 6.2%.
• The difference in average remuneration is on account of annual fixed pay increase for non-managerial personnel.
(v) Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Bank:
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid during fiscal 2025, is in accordance with the remuneration policy of the
Bank.
219
Statutory reports
Annexure 2
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
AXIS BANK LIMITED
CIN: L65110GJ1993PLC020769
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good
corporate practices by Axis Bank Limited (hereinafter called “the Bank”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing our opinion
thereon.
Based on our verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
by the Bank and also the information provided by the Bank, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during
the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Bank has, during the audit period covering the
financial year ended 31 March, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Bank has
proper Board-processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for
the financial year ended 31 March, 2025 according to the provisions of:
i. The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules made thereunder;
ii. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”) and the Rules made thereunder;
iii. The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
iv. Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign
Direct Investment. The Bank has not made any Overseas Direct Investment and does not have External Commercial
Borrowings during the financial year;
v. The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
(“SEBI Act”): -
a. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
b. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
c. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018#;
d. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
e. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
f. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993
regarding the Companies Act, 2013 and dealing with client;
g. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021#;
h. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018#;
220 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
i. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
j. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulation, 1992;
k. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 1994;
l. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996; and
m. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019.
# The Regulations or Guidelines, as the case may be were not applicable to the Bank for the period under review.
The list of Acts, Laws and Regulations specifically applicable to the Bank are given below:
vi. The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with applicable circulars/notifications/guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of
India from time to time.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
i. Secretarial Standards 1 and 2 issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
ii. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
During the period under review, the Bank has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
Standards, etc. mentioned above, to the extent applicable.
We further report that –
The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period
under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board and Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on
agenda were sent at least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held at shorter notice and a system exists
for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful
participation at the meeting.
During the period under review, decisions were carried through unanimously and no dissenting views were observed, while
reviewing the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Bank commensurate with the size and operations
of the Bank to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the Bank has undertaken the following events / actions –
1. Members’ approval was obtained at the 30th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on 26 July, 2024 for:
a. borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any other permitted foreign currency, by issue of
debt securities on a private placement basis up to an amount of `35,000/- crores in domestic and / or overseas
markets within the overall borrowing limits of the Bank;
b. raising of funds by issue of equity shares / depository receipts and / or any other instruments or securities
representing either equity shares and / or convertible securities linked to equity shares for an amount up to
`20,000/- crores.
2. The Committee of Whole-time Directors of the Bank on 05 September, 2024, has approved the allotment of 3,92,500
fully paid, Senior, Rated, Listed, Unsecured, Taxable, Redeemable, Long Term Non-Convertible Debentures (Series – 8)
of the face value of `1 lakh each, at par aggregating to `3,925/- crores, at a coupon rate of 7.45% p.a. payable annually,
on a private placement basis.
221
Statutory reports
3. The Bank has redeemed Senior, Unsecured and Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (Series- 1) aggregating to
`5,705/- crores having ISIN INE238A08351 on 05 December, 2024 and Unsecured, Redeemable Non-Convertible
Debentures (Series- 22) aggregating to `850/- crores having ISIN INE238A08369 on 12 February, 2025.
4. The Financial Intelligence Unit – India vide its order dated 03 June, 2024, has imposed a monetary penalty of
`1,66,25,000/- on the Bank pertaining to non-compliance in respect of opening and monitoring of certain accounts
under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 read with Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of
Records) Rules, 2005.
5. The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) vide its letter dated 10 September, 2024, has imposed a monetary penalty of
`1.91/- crores on the Bank pertaining to non-compliance with certain provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
and certain directions issued by RBI on ‘Interest Rate on Deposits’, ‘Know Your Customer’ (“KYC”) and ‘Credit Flow to
Agriculture- Collateral free agricultural loans’.
6. RBI vide its order and email dated 12 February, 2025, has imposed a compounding penalty of `37,32,505/- on the Bank
pertaining to non-compliance with certain provisions of Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security
by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000, Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security
by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017 and Foreign Exchange Management (Non-Debt Instruments)
Rules, 2019.
For Bhandari & Associates
Company Secretaries
Unique Identification No.: P1981MH043700
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6157/2024
Manisha Maheshwari
Partner
FCS No.: 13272; C P No.: 11031
Mumbai | 25 April, 2025 ICSI UDIN: F013272G000193419
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure ‘A’ and forms an integral part of this
report.
222 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
AXIS BANK LIMITED
CIN: L65110GJ1993PLC020769
Our Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended 31 March, 2025 of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Bank. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
4. Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and
regulations and happening of events etc.
5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For Bhandari & Associates
Company Secretaries
Unique Identification No.: P1981MH043700
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6157/2024
Manisha Maheshwari
Partner
FCS No.: 13272; C P No.: 11031
Mumbai | 25 April, 2025 ICSI UDIN: F013272G000193419
223
Statutory reports
Annexure 3
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members,
Axis Bank Limited,
Trishul, 3rd Floor,
Opp. Samartheshwar Temple,
Law Garden Ellisbridge,
Ahmedabad – 380 006
Gujarat.
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Axis Bank
Limited having Corporate Identity Number (“CIN”) : L65110GJ1993PLC020769 and having registered office at Trishul,
3rd Floor, Opp. Samartheshwar Temple, Law Garden Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad – 380006, Gujarat (hereinafter referred to
as “the Bank”), produced before us by the Bank for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation
34(3) read with clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number
(“DIN”) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank & its
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the financial year ended
31 March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr.
Name of Director DIN Date of appointment in the Bank
No.
1. Subramanian Nurani Vishwanathan 09568559 30.05.2023
2. Girish Paranjpe 02172725 02.11.2018
3. Meena Ganesh 00528252 01.08.2020
4. G. Padmanabhan 07130908 28.10.2020
5. Prof. S. Mahendra Dev 06519869 14.06.2021
6. P. N. Prasad 07430506 20.10.2022
7. CH S. S. Mallikarjunarao 07667641 01.02.2023
8. Pranam Wahi 00031914 15.02.2024
9. Mini Ipe 07791184 29.07.2023
10. Rajiv Anand 02541753 04.08.2016
11. Subrat Mohanty 08679444 17.08.2023
12. Munish Sharda 06796060 27.02.2024
13. Amitabh Chaudhry 00531120 01.01.2019
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management
of the Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance
as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the
affairs of the Bank.
For Bhandari & Associates
Company Secretaries
Unique Identification No.: P1981MH043700
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6157/2024
Manisha Maheshwari
Partner
FCS No.: 13272; C P No.: 11031
Mumbai | 25 April, 2025 ICSI UDIN: F013272G000193463
224 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
Annexure 4
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES
[As prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
Rules 2014 and amended as per the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules]
1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company: The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) philosophy is to make meaningful
and measurable contributions to the inclusive, equitable and sustainable development of India. The Bank strives to
support those from socially, economically, or physically excluded and disadvantaged communities, and strengthen the
country’s development ecosystem. The Bank has adopted an integrated approach that focuses on, creating opportunities
for secure and sustainable livelihoods, improving the quality of and access to education, strengthening financial inclusion
and financial literacy amongst unbanked and underbanked sections of society, supporting environmental sustainability,
and providing humanitarian support and relief where needed.
2. Composition of CSR Committee:
Number of meetings Number of meetings of
Sr
Name of Director Designation/nature of Directorship of CSR Committee CSR Committee attended
No
held during the year during the year
1 N. S. Vishwanathan Independent Director and Part Time Chairman 4 3
2 Rajiv Anand Deputy Managing Director 4 4
3 Meena Ganesh Independent Director 4 4
4 Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Independent Director 4 4
5 Munish Sharda Executive Director 4 3
3. Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the board
are disclosed on the website of the Company:
https://www.axisbank.com/csr/social-responsibility
4. Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance
of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8, if applicable:
An impact assessment was conducted through a third-party agency on five of our projects under Financial Literacy,
Education and Humanitarian & Relief themes respectively, in accordance with sub-rule (3) (a) of Rule 8 of CSR Rules.
A summary of these assessments is provided below and the complete assessment reports are available on the Bank’s
website at https://www.axisbank.com/csr/social-responsibility.
Impact Assessment Project 1
Financial Literacy Training Program
Axis Bank’s financial literacy program aims to create awareness on personal financial management aspects through
financial literacy initiatives and provide the underserved sections of society – especially rural population and urban
poor, with access to formal banking channels and products under financial inclusion initiatives. The program also aims
to facilitate access to Government benefit schemes and social security schemes through banking channels. The impact
assessment of the program focuses on the effectiveness of trainings and short video films in local languages as the
primary educational tool.
During fiscal 2023, a total of 0.9 million beneficiaries across 20 states and one Union Territory were provided financial
literacy trainings. The assessment is based on data collected from an exhaustive survey conducted between October
2024 - January 2025, involving 2,326 women who participated in the program and a control group of 488 women from
similar socio-economic backgrounds who did not view the video.
Key Findings:
1. The program achieved a 100% recall rate among participants, with the majority remembering key messages about
savings and distinguishing essential from non-essential expenditures. In contrast, only 23% of the control group
had similar exposure to financial literacy content.
225
Statutory reports
2. 77% participants reported tracking their household incomes and expenditures post-training, compared to about
49% in the control group. Additionally, 44% of participants started this practice after watching the FL video,
indicating a direct impact of the program on their financial habits.
3. Nearly all participants had a savings account, and over 90% were aware of receiving direct benefit transfers from
the government, a significant increase from the control group 86%.
4. Among the participants, 94% have stated that health insurance is important as against 84% among the control
group respondents.
5. The health and hygiene component appears to have been effective in raising awareness, with 84% of participants
recalling related messages such as regular handwashing, keeping food covered, and maintaining hygiene while
sneezing, compared to only 22% recall in the control group.
6. About 90% of respondents in the participant group have stated that they consider life insurance important as
against the control group 78%. Further, 52% of these participants had some form of life insurance compared to
only 37% of the control group respondents.
7. The case studies show improved financial awareness, Utilization of Skills for Income Generation, Awareness of
government schemes etc. of the participants.
The Financial Literacy Program has been reasonably successful in raising financial awareness and capability among women
participants. While the program has shown positive results in terms of awareness and behavioural change, there remains a
gap in the actual subscription to financial products like insurance, suggesting a need for further targeted interventions.
Overall, the program significantly enhanced participants’ financial literacy, leading to better financial planning and
security, demonstrating the critical role of such education in empowering individuals economically.
Impact Assessment Project 2
Financial Literacy through Mobile Vans
The Financial Literacy Program, supported by Axis Bank and implemented by CSC Academy, aimed to enhance financial
understanding among rural populations in India using 20 mobile vans operated by Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs).
The initiative targeted remote areas, delivering financial education through video content. The impact assessment for
fiscal 2023 covered 18 locations where these vans operated, gathering feedback from 455 participants. The assessment
involved identifying VLEs, surveying locations, conducting interviews with VLEs and participants, and evaluating recall
and understanding of financial literacy concepts.
Key Findings:
1. High recall was observed for bank account opening procedures (77%), budgeting and financial planning (71%) and
insurance schemes (69%).
2. Digital literacy topics had lower recall, with UPI app registration at 55% and safe use of digital banking apps at 62%.
3. Fraud awareness, including Ponzi schemes, had a recall of 69%, indicating a moderate understanding of financial risks.
4. Key financial concepts such as the documents required for opening a bank account (80%) and maintaining a basic
savings account (76%) were well understood.
5. Topics like using loans for intended purposes (66%) and BHIM app usage (54%) showed lower comprehension,
highlighting gaps in digital financial literacy.
6. Awareness of life insurance benefits stood at 72%, while 71% understood government insurance schemes.
7. 62% of participants started budgeting after the training.
8. 64% initiated financial planning discussions with their families.
226 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
The program has positively impacted financial literacy and inclusion in rural India, particularly in foundational topics like
budgeting and insurance awareness.
Strengthening VLE training and ensuring better responsiveness can further maximize the program’s success.
Impact Assessment Project 3
Supporting Child Heart Surgeries in partnership with Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust
Axis Bank in partnership with Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust supported 300 heart surgeries for the children
suffered by congenital heart disease at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital during fiscal 2023. These surgeries were
conducted at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital, Raipur, Chhattisgarh with patients coming from 15 states across India,
reflecting the program’s widespread impact. The program ensured not only life-saving interventions but also provided
holistic care, including structured preoperative, surgical, and postoperative follow-up services. The initiative has had
a transformative impact on children’s health, education, emotional well-being, and family finances, highlighting Axis
Bank’s commitment to fostering a healthier and more inclusive future.
The below key findings are based on quantitative data from the cases, including a focused review of a sample of
60 patient records (out of 300), and quantitative interviews conducted with 32 parents and children and qualitative
interviews with key stakeholders, including cardiologists, surgeons, caseworkers, and chief medical officers along with
the focussed group discussions (“FGDs”) with the Sri Sathya Sai Hospital’s Impact Assessment and Counselling Team.
Key Findings:
Notably, 300 surgeries supported by Axis Bank achieved a remarkable 100% surgical success rate at the time of surgery.
1. Child Health Improvement: 96.8 % of the interviewed respondents observed improvement in their health post-
surgery.
2. School Attendance: 82.76% of the school-age children resumed school regularly post-surgery.
3. Regular follow-up: 96.8% of the respondents informed that they come to the hospital for regular follow-ups at
specified intervals.
4. Children participation in physical activities: 84.38% of the respondents observed that their children participate
very actively in physical activities as compared to pre-surgery.
5. Satisfaction with surgery: 93.76% of interviewed families showed satisfaction.
6. Family’s emotional well-being: 81.26% of the interviewed respondents observed definite improvement in the
emotional well-being.
7. Relevance: 90% of the families benefited out of the program are earning less than ₹ 20,000 per month.
Overall, the partnership with Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust played a crucial role in the lives of children
affected with congenital heart diseases. The surgeries saved lives and alleviated critical health conditions, enabling
children to resume normal, healthy lives. Stakeholders noted reduced mortality and complications due to adherence to
global best practices like intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography. Children, previously burdened by illness,
were able to return to school, improving their academic performance and social interactions. This outcome provided
families with a renewed sense of hope for their children’s future. It also alleviated the financial problems and reducing
economic burdens among the needy families.
Impact Assessment Project 4
Mid-Day Meal Program in partnership with the Akshaya Patra Foundation
Axis Bank in partnership with the Akshaya Patra Foundation provided Mid-Day Meals (“MDM”) to select schools in Uttar
Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Odisha covering about 1 Lakh children between December 2022 and March 2023. The
evaluation was designed to assess the effectiveness and impact of the MDM program on students, teachers, parents,
and other key stakeholders. It measured improvement in child nutrition, school participation, learning outcomes, and
227
Statutory reports
general satisfaction with the quality of meals. The research applied a retrospective post-then-pre impact assessment
design with a mixed-methods approach to provide a comprehensive assessment. Quantitative data were applied to
measure the outcomes objectively, while qualitative insights were used to gain a deeper understanding of experiences
and challenges.
Demographic Profile: The survey covered 150 students from 15 schools in Odisha and Karnataka. Among these, 60.6%
were females, and 87.9% of total students belonged to Below Poverty Line (“BPL”) families, which makes it evident that
the programme catered to economically vulnerable children.
Key Findings:
1. Hunger Satisfaction: 96% of children satisfied with meal quantity, and it reflects an overwhelming acceptance of
portion sizes.
2. Learning Outcomes: 100% of the teachers opined that the program improved students’ concentration and
engagement in learning.
3. Attendance Affected: 87.5% of the teachers opined that stopping MDM would negatively impact student
attendance.
4. Quality of Meal (reported by teachers): 85% of teachers felt that the meals were satisfactory
5. Meal Quality and Satisfaction by students: 62% of the students rated taste as “very good”. This percentage was
the highest in Karnataka at 71%.
6. Health and Attendance: The project led to more energetic children, fewer sick days, and more attendance, hence,
showing positive nutrition impacts.
Overall, the findings from various stakeholders highlight the significant impact of the MDM program on child nutrition,
attendance, and academic performance.
Impact Assessment Project 5
Axis DilSe® - Lyzon Friendship School, Manipur in partnership with the Sunbird Trust
Axis Bank in partnership with the Sunbird Trust supported Lyzon Friendship School, Singngat subdivision, Churachandpur
district, Manipur. The program interventions involved tuition and hostel fee support, key school infrastructure like
Science Lab, digital classroom, etc.
The assessment was carried out to evaluate the social impact resulting from the implementation of the initiative. Given
the nature of the project, a mixed method research approach was adopted to assess both quantitative and qualitative
impact. Qualitative survey covered 15 students and 10 teachers from the school. In-depth interviews were conducted
covering 8 children, 7 teachers, 8 parents and one principal and one hostel cook.
Key Findings:
1. Reducing financial stress: 100% of children reported that the support towards hostel and tuition fee reduced
their financial stress, and further encouraged them to continue their educational journey. Teachers reported that
financial aid served as motivation, prompting parents to ensure their children attended school regularly.
2. Reduced travel time and improved attendance: Support towards the hostel facility has proven to be highly
beneficial for both students and their families. Students who previously had to travel long distances to reach
school now benefit from the convenience of living on campus. This also led to better attendance and more time
for study and extracurricular activities.
3. Dedicated Science Lab: 100% of the students reported that the lab class has been beneficial in Hands-on learning
and 80% reported that it helped them to understand scientific methods better.
228 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
4. Digital classrooms: 67% of the students reported that they have benefited from the digital education classes in the
school. 75% of teachers reported that they are conducting at least one digital class per week for students in grades
4 through 8.
Overall, the assessment mentioned that the project exemplifies inclusivity by addressing the needs of communities
facing challenges, with a focus on empowering underserved children regardless of their age, gender, social category and
geographic location.
5. (a) Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: `21,296.18 crores
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: `425.92 crores
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NIL
(d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: Not Applicable
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: `425.92 crores
6. (a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ₹284.86 crores
(b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: `1.73 crores
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: `0.33 crore
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: `286.92 crores
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Amount Unspent (` in crores)
Total Amount
Spent for the Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as
Financial Year Account as per sub- section (6) of section 135 per second proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 135
(` in crores)
Amount Date of transfer Name of the Fund Amount Date of transfer
17-Apr-2025
19-Apr-2025
286.92 139.65 21-Apr-2025 NA NIL NA
22-Apr-2025
23-Apr-2025
(f) Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. Amount
Particular
No. (` in crores)
(1) (2) (3)
(i) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135 425.92
(ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year 426.57
(iii) Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)] 0.65
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any NIL
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)] 0.65
229
Statutory reports
7. Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Balance
Amount Amount
Amount in Amount transferred to a
transferred to Amount remaining
Unspent CSR Fund as specified under
Preceding Unspent CSR Spent in the to be Deficiency,
Sl. Account under Schedule VII as per
Financial Account under Financial spent in if
No. sub- second proviso to sub-
Year(s) sub- section (6) Year succeeding any
section (6) of section (5) of Section
of Section 135 (` in crores) Financial Years
Section 135 135, if any
(` in crores) (` in crores)
(` in crores)
1 Fiscal 2022 24.88 NIL 1.48 NIL NIL NIL
2 Fiscal 2023 29.61 1.22 3.06 NIL 1.22 NIL
3 Fiscal 2024 51.24 NIL 51.24 NIL NIL NIL
8. Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in
the Financial Year:
Yes No
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created / acquired: Not applicable
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount
spent in the Financial Year: Not applicable
9. S pecify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub- section (5)
of Section 135: Not Applicable.
Amitabh Chaudhry N. S. Vishwanathan
Managing Director & CEO Chairman of CSR Committee
Place: Mumbai
Date: 25 April 2025
230 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
Annexure 5
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
Conservation of Energy
The steps taken by the Bank or impact on conservation of energy:
a) Availability of Electrical vehicle charging facility at large buildings i.e., Axis House, Mumbai, Andheri MIDC & Axis
House, Noida.
b) Lithium based battery backup is provided for all new UPS installations and existing replacement.
c) Inverter based air conditioning machines with green refrigerant gas (R32/R410A) is provided for all new installations
and existing replacements.
d) Replacement of conventional lights with LED lights is provided in all branches / offices.
e) Centralized energy management system (“CEMS”) is operational in 600 branches to monitor and control energy
consumption.
f) Daily re-cycling capacity of 110 kiloliters (“KL”) of water through sewage treatment plant is available at Axis House, Mumbai.
g) Availability of annual rainwater harvesting capacity of approximately 2000 KL at Axis House, Mumbai.
h) Savings of water consumption by use of sensors / bio-blocks in urinals at selected large offices.
The steps taken by the Bank for utilising alternate sources of energy:
a) Solar power purchased under power purchase agreement (“PPA”) model for Bank’s business continuity centre (data
centre), Bengaluru.
b) Solar on ground installations aggregating 2MW.
c) Three large offices in Mumbai i.e., Axis House Mumbai, MIDC Andheri and the Ruby premises are being operational on
100% renewal green energy.
Capital Investments on energy conservation equipment:
a) Replacement of conventional lights with LED lights at existing set up and new branches estimated at approximately
`3.55 crores per annum.
b) Yearly cost of approximately `3.22 crores towards centralised energy management services project.
Technology absorption
1. Efforts made towards Technology Absorption:
The Bank remains committed to technology-driven business initiatives to simplify and enhance the banking experience
for customers. Throughout fiscal 2025, several efforts were made to further bolster the Bank’s technological capabilities
through continuous innovation and adoption.
a) OPEN by Axis: The Bank continues to expand its Mobile Banking platform, by offering over 250 features. The
Bank has achieved impressive ratings of 4.8 on the iOS App Store from 349K ratings and 4.7 on the Google Play
Store from 3.1 million reviews. The Bank’s enhanced channel capabilities have significantly increased the number
of branch service requests handled, leading to a rise in monthly active users to over 14.5 million. The Bank’s Mobile
Banking app now has 33.7 million registered customers. The Bank aims to maintain its leading position and high
ratings on both the iOS App Store and Google Play Store throughout fiscal 2026.
b) Retail Channels: The Bank’s ‘Support’ website is now available in 10 languages: English, Hindi, Bengali, Tamil,
Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Punjabi, Malayalam and Telugu. The Bank has expanded its digital services on the
Branch of the Future (“BOTF”) channel to 32, introducing new features such as EMI cycle changes, EMI repayment
231
Statutory reports
account adjustments and loan account statement downloads. Furthermore, the Bank’s WhatsApp banking
channel has surpassed 30 million customers, engaging in over 100 campaigns and facilitating more than 40 million
communications, while also introducing FD booking and loan services as its latest offerings.
c) UPI: The Bank has upheld its robust presence in the UPI realm, boasting an accumulated VPA base of 1674
million and facilitating approximately 37.6 million merchant transactions daily through the UPI platform. The
Bank has secured number one position in the UPI Payer PSP space, holding a market share of approximately
30%. Additionally, the Bank introduced UPI-enabled ATM cash withdrawals and deposits, complementing existing
services such as RuPay Credit Card on UPI, digital currency interoperability through UPI and UPI enablement for
international payments. The Bank remains dedicated to developing a robust IT infrastructure and enhancing IT
capabilities, resulting in one of the lowest technical decline rates in the industry and setting its position as a leading
payments solution provider.
d) GenAI: The Bank embarked on the journey of integrating GenAI into its operations and launched Axis Deep
Intelligence (“ADI”), a Gen AI based internal chatbot. ADI is used across 5500+ branches across India and assists
100,000+ employees. The Bank is leveraging emerging technologies such as AI / ML, Automation and Data
analytics to improve customer experience, operational efficiency and boost staff productivity by building AI
assists. Furthermore, the Bank has empowered different departments with Co-pilot capabilities including 4500+
bots across 1850+ automated processes.
e) API: The Bank has implemented API Gateway and ESB to provide a reliable, secure and hybrid API platform for
external partners and internal consumers respectively. The Bank has built a Bespoke integration platform on cloud
to orchestrate API products for partners like Account opening and Co-lending. Furthermore, the API guardrails
classify the Bank’s APIs into different levels of criticality (High, Medium, Low) with better security controls and API
governance. The Bank has launched API-based products including partnerships with Flipkart, Google, Airtel, that
covers transactional banking, trade, credit card, forex, and payment solutions. The Bank has enhanced increased
API consumption through 50% increase in daily API hits, 840+ partner APIs, 850+ partners onboardings, 2000+
Internal APIs. Additionally, the Bank’s API developer portal provides a platform for 5000+ developer to access
460+ APIS enhancing the API accessibility.
f) Enterprise Architecture and Cloud: The Bank continued its commitment in fiscal 2025 to maintain a Cloud-first,
Cloud-native architecture. Distinguishing itself from the peers, the Bank has established three enterprise-grade
landing zones and successfully deployed 150+ applications on the Cloud and adopted continuous improvement/
continuous development practices for 100+ applications. Notably, the Bank holds the distinction of being the first
Indian bank to attain ISO certification for AWS and Azure cloud security. The Bank continues to focus on hyper-
automation leveraging Infra-as-a-Code capabilities and enhancing application observability through Cloud-based
SRE capabilities. The Bank’s cloud infrastructure has achieved high maturity across key performance indicators,
including governance, resiliency, data recovery, security, monitoring, and incident response. The Bank has also
obtained cloud privacy certification and implemented robust security measures such as Zero Trust Controls.
Furthermore, in fiscal 2025, the Bank built its First Data Lakehouse on Google Cloud for UPI in APAC. In fiscal
2026, the Bank aims to evangelize GenAI and Agentic AI adoption in initiatives targeting market differentiated
experiences, process efficiency, developer productivity and future readiness.
g) Infrastructure Resiliency: The Bank has centralized IT infrastructure and operates from two primary data centers
located in different seismic zones within the country (Mumbai and Bengaluru regions) along with one near DR data
center (Bengaluru). The data centers are equipped with wide-area network connectivity consisting of leased lines and
multiprotocol label switching, enabling the delivery of applications to domestic and overseas branches and offices.
Furthermore, the Bank’s data centres are compliant with the highest benchmarking standards, built-in redundancy
systems composed of multiple active power and cooling distribution paths. The Bank has implemented data
privacy measures such as user access management, network security, secure configuration, business continuity
planning (“BCP”), disaster recovery (“DR”), and database security. These initiatives allow seamless and accessible
digital experiences for all customers, employees, and partners.
h) Cyber security: The Bank upholds unwavering dedication to maintaining the highest standards of data security
and privacy, continually investing in fortifying its capabilities. The approach encompasses a comprehensive
cyber security program, underpinned by a robust Cyber Security Policy and Standards aligned with industry best
practices and regulatory mandates.
232 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s report
The Bank leverages the National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”) and ISO27001 Standards, and
cyber security framework revolves around five core pillars: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.
In adherence to stringent standards, the Bank is compliant with ISO27001 Information Security Management
System (“ISMS”), ISO27017 Cloud Security Standard, ISO27034 Business Application Security Certification for its
Software development and management domain, and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCIDSS”).
Recently, the Bank achieved ISO27018 Cloud Privacy (“PII”) Security Standard Certification. This milestone
underscores the Bank’s heightened cyber security resilience and reinforced controls over the Bank’s IT and
application assets. Operating round-the-clock, the Bank boasts a state-of-the-art Security Operations Centre and
Cyber Security Operations System. All digital products undergo continuous monitoring on Dark Net and Deep
Web platforms.
With a stellar BitSight Rating of 810 out of 900, surpassing 90% of tracked Banking and Finance entities, the
Bank exhibits a well-controlled internet-facing security posture. Embracing a zero-trust architecture internally, the
Bank continually augments its security technology and process controls. Furthermore, the Bank has conducted
dedicated cyber security workshops for 1500+ mid and senior management employees, reinforcing its collective
commitment to fostering a culture of cyber resilience across the organization.
i) Central bank digital currency (“CBDC”): The Bank has made significant progress in fiscal 2025 in the CBDC
initiatives, becoming the first bank in Cohort to go live with both Android and iOS apps. The Bank has surpassed
customer and transaction targets with 0.65+ million registered customers and 6+ million transactions. The Bank
is also the preferred RBI partner to lead the Government-led Programmable CBDC initiative, collaborating with
various ministries and organizations. The Banks aims to expand its collaboration with government for CBDC
projects and integrate with TPAP to boost adoption.
2. Details of imported technology (imported during the last three years) reckoned from the beginning of the fiscal year
is as follow:
a) The details of technology imported
(i) No hardware procurements have been made in foreign currency.
(ii) Several software licenses and upgrades across cards and payments and fund services - capital markets, have
been procured over the past three financial years.
b) The year of import:
The details are provided below:
Year* Currency Expenditure
Fiscal 2023 USD 1,08,942.00
Fiscal 2024 USD 4,80,000.00
Fiscal 2025 USD 21,88,211.30
Total 27,77,153.30
* Indicates amount paid in fiscal 2025 for purchase orders released in fiscal 2023, fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025.
c) Whether the technology been fully absorbed:
All licenses procured have been put to use.
d) If not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not taken place, and the reasons thereof:
NA.
3. The expenditure incurred on research and development:
Nil
Foreign exchange earning and outgo
For fiscal 2025, for the domestic operations, the Bank had a net foreign exchange gain arising on all exchange / derivatives
transactions of `2,138.37 crores and the foreign exchange outgo towards the operating and capital expenditure was
`786.00 crores.
233
Statutory reports
Management’s discussion and analysis
Macro-economic Environment
Global economy enters a period of structural adjustments
The global economic system operational post-World War 2 is currently in the process of being reset. The Trump Administration
has interpreted its political mandate to course-correct on the sharp increase in income and wealth inequality in the US, the
atrophying of its manufacturing base, and what it sees as misuse of multilateral institutions that it helped erect over the past
80 years. The Trump Administration has therefore begun to make structural changes to trade, taxes, regulations, immigration,
currency and energy markets, among others. For example, it believes that existing global trading rules do not work anymore
for the US and need to be dismantled or at least meaningfully amended, moving to bilateral agreements with partners instead
of multilateral forums. However, it is still unclear what the new rules are likely to be, and by when the consensus around them
can be built. Given US-China dominance in global trade, a prolonged conflict would have a substantial impact on global growth.
Similarly, the “new Triffin dilemma” necessitates a periodic downward reset of the US dollar. It highlights the risks from the
country providing the global reserve currency needing to sustain a current account deficit, and thus, over decades, accumulating
unsustainable international liabilities. Prior episodes of unilateral hikes in import tariffs, like in 1930 (Smoot-Hawley) and 1971
(the Nixon shock) also drove similar disruptions, and triggered significant currency market volatility. Large changes in exchange
rates unsettle economies and markets.
Negotiations on these issues, and evolution of the new models of engagement are likely to be contentious, driving a prolonged
period of policy vacuum. The only restraint on the pace of this shift seems to be market volatility – when uncertainty crosses a
certain level, markets become chaotic. Fear of chaos has driven a pull-back from overly disruptive steps a few times.
Despite partial tariff rollbacks and ongoing negotiations to reduce them, the lack of clarity is likely to significantly slow global
growth as 1) investment decisions will get postponed till visibility improves on tariffs and exchange rates; 2) higher tariffs
mean fiscal tightening, among others driving a cutback in consumption; 3) financial conditions tighten due to uncertainty.
There can be some positive surprise for global growth if strong fiscal action materialises across Europe and China, breaking
through the local political resistance. Similarly, an end to the Russia-Ukraine conflict can also help improve risk appetite and
push energy prices lower.
Indian economy
In our view, the growth slowdown in the Indian economy in fiscal 2025 was due to fiscal and monetary tightening, much of it
unintended.
There were two sets of challenges fiscally. First, the union government’s fiscal deficit fell by 80 basis points of GDP in each of
fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025. Second, while the spending was front-loaded in fiscal 2024, it was back loaded in fiscal 2025, both
due to the general elections. This created a prolonged lull in government. Both these headwinds are now receding. Deficit in
fiscal 2026 is set to fall only 40 bps of GDP, and the spending lull is now over, with seasonal patterns back.
Second, on the monetary front, adjusted for the major merger in the banking system in fiscal 2024, non-food credit growth
fell from 16.5% in March 2024 to 10.9% year-on-year (“Y-o-Y”) in March 2025.
This sharp slowdown was broad-based (i.e. not just limited to unsecured loans segment) and largely supply-driven. It was
triggered by the regulator’s concerns on high loan-deposit ratios (LDR) at some banks. As banks slowed credit growth,
deposit creation by banks slowed too, compounding the weak money injection by the RBI. Furthermore, FX intervention
(USD sales by the central bank) drained durable liquidity by around `5 lakh crore, and intensified the liquidity stress, with
rates on certificates of deposit diverging substantially from the expected policy rates.
Recent steps by the RBI, like a CRR cut, bond purchases, buy-sell FX swaps, repo rate cuts, macroprudential easing and easier
LCR norms have led to conditions that should support growth better. Inflation falling below 4% means the policy focus now is
squarely on growth.
234 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
India’s economy is among the least exposed to global factors, with direct impact from initial US reciprocal tariffs among the
least in the world. There is some potential for share gains as well, as the “China + 1” trend gets another impetus. Improving
competitive metrics, like in infrastructure and value-chain development in electronics, are likely to help. India’s services
exports, particularly in the global capability centres, continue to be robust. The structural drivers behind this – disaggregation
of global services value-chains, rapid increase in global cross-border telecom bandwidth, and the surge in remote-working – are
likely to persist. India’s share of modern services exports is now a remarkable 8%. However, uncertainty on global growth may
adversely affect some sectors of the economy in the near-term.
Developments in the Banking system
Adjusted for a major merger in the financial system, banking system non-food credit grew 10.9% Y-o-Y as of 4 April, 2025,
while deposit growth was up 10.1% Y-o-Y.
Credit growth continues to be dominated by services (this includes credit to NBFCs), followed by the retail segment. While
credit to agriculture is strong, industry segment growth has stayed subdued. Within industry, growth in MSMEs continues to
be faster than large corporates.
Regulators have rolled back risk weights on bank lending to NBFCs and MFIs which should contribute to the overall banking
system growth going forward.
The banking system remains well capitalized to meet the needs of a growing economy, with early signs of growth in private
investments, and credit risks remain subdued.
Prospects for fiscal 2026
A revival in the domestic real-estate market, and in general the reversal of several headwinds that slowed the economy last
year should be supportive of credit demand. With liquidity conditions easing supply, and transmission of rate cuts underway,
credit growth should pick up from current levels. The high uncertainty emanating from US trade policies and financial market
shocks may push out corporate investments and keep their loan demand weak.
Medium term Outlook
Over the past decade, consensus estimates for India’s trend growth rate declined from around 8% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal
2012 to the current range of 6-6.5%. COVID cast new shadows on potential trend growth. We believe the growth slowdown
in the previous decade was due to cyclical factors, in particular the real-estate downturn, and trend growth remains above 7%.
This consists of: a) 1% annual growth in labour input, as the number of workers of working age continues to expand, and female
labour force participation and hours worked should rise; b) 2% to 2.5% annual growth in total-factor-productivity due to the
state still willingly ceding space to the private sector, strong productivity growth in services, improvement in macro (highways,
railways) as well as micro-infrastructure (like piped water, internet, electricity and cooking gas connections), and technology
transfer emanating from the surge in global capability centres; and c) 4%-plus growth in capital formation due to a cyclical
recovery in real-estate and private sector capex. We expect inflation to average 4% in fiscal 2026 as the economy remains
nearly a year behind its pre-pandemic path, keeping labour in surplus.
With nominal GDP growth likely to average 11% annually, and the formal economy expected to grow faster, system bank credit
growth can be in the low to mid-teens.
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Operating performance
(`in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Net interest income 54,348 49,894 9%
Non-interest income 25,257 22,442 13%
Operative revenue 79,605 72,336 10%
Operating expenses 37,500 35,213 6%
Operating profit 42,105 37,123 13%
Provisions and contingencies 7,759 4,063 91%
Profit before tax 34,346 33,060 4%
Provision for tax 7,973 8,199 (3%)
Net profit 26,373 24,861 6%
235
Statutory reports
Operating revenue increased by 10% Y-o-Y (year-on-year) from `72,336 crores in fiscal 2024 to `79,605 crores in fiscal
2025. Net interest income (NII) rose 9% from `49,894 crores in fiscal 2024 to `54,348 crores in fiscal 2025. Non-interest
income consisting of fee, trading and other income increased by 13% from `22,442 crores in fiscal 2024 to `25,257 crores
in fiscal 2025. Operating expenses grew 6% from `35,213 crores in fiscal 2024 to `37,500 crores in fiscal 2025. As a result,
the operating profit grew by 13% to `42,105 crores from `37,123 crores reported last year. Provisions and contingencies
increased by 91% from `4,063 crores in fiscal 2024 to `7,759 crores in fiscal 2025. Consequently, net profit increased by 6%
Y-o-Y from `24,861 crores in fiscal 2024 to `26,373 crores in fiscal 2025.
Net interest income
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Interest on loans 97,200 87,107 12%
Interest on investments 22,928 20,011 15%
Other interest income 2,549 2,251 13%
Interest income 122,677 109,369 12%
Interest on deposits 53,902 45,542 18%
Other interest expense 14,427 13,932 4%
Interest expense 68,329 59,474 15%
Net interest income 54,348 49,894 9%
Average interest earning assets1 1,364,266 1,225,443 11%
Average Current Account and Savings Account (CASA)1 413,419 398,848 4%
Net interest margin (NIM) 3.98% 4.07%
Yield on assets 8.99% 8.92%
Yield on advances 9.86% 9.89%
Yield on investments 6.84% 6.70%
Cost of funds 5.46% 5.25%
Cost of deposits 5.12% 4.86%
1 computed on daily average basis
NII constituted 68% of the operating revenue and increased by 9% from `49,894 crores in fiscal 2024 to `54,348 crores in
fiscal 2025. Yield on assets increased by 7 bps while cost of funds increased by 21 bps. As a result, the NIM declined 9 bps
Y-o-Y to 3.98% in fiscal 2025.
During this period, the yield on interest earning assets increased from 8.92% in fiscal 2024 to 8.99% in fiscal 2025 largely
due to improved mix of better yielding assets in the Balance Sheet. The yield on advances decreased marginally by 3 bps
from 9.89% in fiscal 2024 to 9.86% in fiscal 2025. The decrease in yield on advances is mainly due to increase in interest
reversals due to higher slippages. ~72% of the loans of the Bank are floating rate loans, linked to external/internal benchmark
rates. Repo rate has decreased from 6.50% in fiscal 2024 to 6.25% in February 2025. The yield on investments increased
by 14 bps during fiscal 2025.
The decrease in share of low cost bearing liabilities along with repricing of the term deposits during the course of the year has led
to higher cost of funds. As a result, the cost of funds increased by 21 bps from 5.25% in fiscal 2024 to 5.46% in fiscal 2025. Cost
of deposits increased to 5.12% from 4.86% last fiscal mainly due to increase in funding cost of term deposits. Daily average CASA
ratio as a proportion to deposits decreased by 328 bps in fiscal 2025 to 39.26% from 42.54% in fiscal 2024.
Performance of the Bank against the key drivers for the NIM improvement journey of the Bank in fiscal 2025 is as follows:
• Improvement in Balance Sheet mix: loans and investments comprised 89% of total assets as at the end of fiscal 2025,
improving 149 bps Y-o-Y;
• INR denominated loans comprised 96% of total advances at the end of fiscal 2025, stable Y-o-Y;
• Retail and CBG advances comprised 71% of total advances as at 31 March, 2025, improving 5 bps Y-o-Y;
236 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
• Balance outstanding in low-yielding priority sector shortfall deposits declined by `7,107 crores Y-o-Y with
priority sector short fall deposits comprising 0.90% of total assets as at 31 March, 2025 as compared to 1.46% at
31 March, 2024;
• Quality of liabilities measured by outflow rate improved ~340 bps over last three years, month end CASA% at 41% at
31 March, 2025 continues to be amongst the highest in the large private sector banks universe.
The Bank also earned interest on income tax refund of `369 crores in fiscal 2025 as compared to `75 crores in fiscal 2024.
The receipt, amount and timing of such income depends on the nature and determinations by tax authorities and is hence
neither consistent nor predictable.
Non-interest income
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Fee income 22,504 20,257 11%
Trading profit 2,059 1,731 19%
Miscellaneous income 694 454 53%
Non-interest income 25,257 22,442 13%
Non-interest income comprising fees, trading profit and
(` in crores)
Non-Interest Income
miscellaneous income increased by 13% to `25,257 crores in fiscal
2025 from `22,442 crores last year and constituted 32% of the 694
operating revenue of the Bank. 454 2,059
1,731
Fee income increased by 11% to `22,504 crores from `20,257 593 527
360 1,626
crores last year and continued to remain a significant part of the 1,218
Bank’s non-interest income. It constituted 89% of non-interest
income and contributed 28% to the operating revenue in fiscal 10,686 13,001 15,858 20,257 22,504
2025. Growth in reported fee income was mainly on account of -242
increase in business across segments. 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25
Fee Income Trading Profit Misc Income
Segmental composition of fee income continued to remain stable Y-o-Y as under -
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24
Retail Banking 72% 72%
Wholesale Banking 25% 25%
Commercial Banking 3% 3%
Retail Banking fees constituted 72% of the total fee income of the Bank in fiscal 2025 and grew strongly at 12% on a Y-o-Y
basis. Fees from retail cards grew 7% Y-o-Y in fiscal 2025 while retail non-card fees also grew strongly by 16%.
Fee income derived from the Wholesale Banking segment has remained stable Y-o-Y at 25% of the Bank’s total fee income.
Within Wholesale Banking, granular transaction banking fees grew 10% Y-o-Y. Fee income from the Bank’s CBG (Commercial
Banking Group) that lends to small and medium enterprises accounted for 3% of the Bank’s total fee income.
Effective 1 April, 2024 the Bank adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on Classification,
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment Direction, 2023’). During
the year, trading profits without considering impact of mark-to-market gain/(loss) on revaluation of investments increased by
5% to `1,359 crores from `1,299 crores last year mainly on account of higher profits on the SLR portfolio.
The Bank recognised mark-to-market gain on revaluation of investments of `701 crores in fiscal 2025 as compared to a write
back in provision for depreciation on investments of `431 crores in fiscal 2024.
237
Statutory reports
The Bank’s miscellaneous income in fiscal 2025 stood at `694 crores compared to `454 crores in fiscal 2024, comprising
mainly income from display of publicity material amounting to `258 crores and income from sale of Priority Sector Lending
Certificates (PSLC) amounting to `197 crores in fiscal 2025.
Operating revenue
The operating revenue of the Bank increased by 10% to `79,605 crores from `72,336 crores last year. The core income
streams (NII and fees) constituted 97% of the operating revenue, reflecting the stability of the Bank’s earnings.
Operating expenses
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Staff cost 12,193 10,933 12%
Depreciation 1,699 1,334 27%
Other operating expenses 23,608 22,946 3%
Operating expenses 37,500 35,213 6%
Cost : Income Ratio 47.11% 48.68%
Cost: Asset Ratio 2.46% 2.55%
Y-o-Y growth rate in operating expenses moderated to 6% in fiscal 2025 as compared to 30% in fiscal 2024 with operating
expenses increasing to `37,500 crores from `35,213 crores last
Operating Expenses to Assets %
year. The Bank continued to invest in technology and human
capital for supporting the existing and new businesses. 17% of
total cost increase was on account of investments in technology
2.55 2.46
and future growth, 24% of the total cost increase was volume 2.17 2.25
1.96
linked and balance 59% was business as usual expenses which
was partially offset by reduction in integration costs.
Staff cost increased by 12% from `10,933 crores in fiscal 2024
to `12,193 crores in fiscal 2025, primarily due to annual wage
revision. The Bank’s employee strength during fiscal 2025 was at 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25
104,453 which remained largely stable as compared to 104,332
employees as at the end of fiscal 2024.
Other operating expenses increased by 4% from `24,280 crores in fiscal 2024 to `25,307 crores in fiscal 2025. The increase
is primarily due to increase in volume linked costs coming from rising business volumes, investments in technology to support
future business growth which was partially offset by reduction in integration cost.
The Operating Expenses to Assets ratio decreased to 2.46%, compared to 2.55% last year.
Operating profit
During the year, the operating profit of the Bank increased by 13% to `42,105 crores from `37,123 crores last year on
account of strong growth in operating revenues and partially offset by a moderated growth in operating expenses.
Provisions and contingencies
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Provision for non-performing assets 11,356 6,453 76%
Recoveries from written off accounts (3,809) (2,773) 37%
Provision for restructured assets (1) (1) -
Other Provisions
- Provision for country risk 11 6 83%
238 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
- Provision for standard assets including unhedged foreign currency 11 300 (96%)
exposure
- Additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan (38) 49 -
- Provision for COVID-19 and MSME Restructuring (143) (279) (49%)
- Provision for other contingencies 372 308 21%
Total Provision and contingencies 7,759 4,063 91%
During fiscal 2025, provisions (other than provisions for tax) increased 91% Y-o-Y to `7,759 crores from `4,063 crores last
year. Key items of provisions are explained below -
Provisions for non-performing assets and Recoveries from written off accounts:
The gross slippages in % terms increased from 1.68% in fiscal 2024 to 1.99% in fiscal 2025. The Bank provided `11,356
crores towards non-performing assets compared to `6,453 crores last year. The increase in provision for non-performing
assets is primarily on account of higher net slippage ratio at 1.16% in fiscal 2025 as compared to 0.64% crores in fiscal 2024.
The Bank’s recoveries from written off accounts in fiscal 2025 was higher, amounting to `3,809 crores as against `2,773
crores in fiscal 2024.
Pursuant to the RBI notification dated 29 March, 2025, on revised norms for Government Guaranteed Security Receipts
(SRs), the Bank has reversed excess provision of `801 crores to the Profit and Loss Account held on loans transferred to
NARCL during fiscal 2025.
Other provisions:
• Provisions for standard assets:
The Bank made a provision of `11 crores for standard assets including unhedged foreign currency exposure compared
to provision of `300 crores last year.
• During the year, the Bank made a provision for standard assets of `66 crores as against a provision of `208 crores
made in fiscal 2024.
• Further, during the year the Bank had a write back of `55 crores as against a provision of `92 crores made in fiscal
2024 for unhedged foreign currency exposure.
• During fiscal 2025, the Bank had a write back in provision of `38 crores pursuant to implementation of resolution plan in
certain accounts. As compared to the same there was provision of `49 crores in fiscal 2024 for delay in implementation
of resolution plan.
• During fiscal 2025, there was a write-back of `143 crores in provision for loans subjected to COVID-19 and MSME
restructuring mainly on account of slippages and recoveries, as compared to a write back in provision of `279 crores in
fiscal 2024.
As at the end of fiscal 2025, the cumulative non NPA provisions held by the Bank amounted to `11,957 crores with a
standard asset coverage ratio (all non NPA provisions / standard assets) of 1.15%.
Provision for tax
Provision for tax for fiscal 2025 stood at `7,973 crores as compared to `8,199 crores for last year. The Bank received
favourable orders at ITAT for 6 assessment years commencing AY 2010-11. This has resulted in a write-back of excess tax
provisions made in the previous financial years, aggregating to `550 crores.
Net profit
Net profit for fiscal 2025 increased by 6% Y-o-Y to `26,373 crores as compared to the net profit of `24,861 crores last year.
239
Statutory reports
Asset Quality Parameters
The Bank added `19,474 crores to Gross NPAs during the year with the ratio of Gross NPAs to gross customer assets
declining to 1.28%, at the end of March 2025 from 1.43% as at end of March 2024. The Bank added `11,195 crores to Net
NPAs after adjusting for recoveries and upgradations of `4,627 crores and `3,652 crores respectively and the Bank’s Net
NPA ratio (Net NPAs as percentage of net customer assets) increased marginally to 0.33% from 0.31%. The Bank’s provision
coverage ratio excluding prudential write-offs during the fiscal stood at 75%. The Bank’s accumulated prudential write-off
pool stood at `42,818 crores as at end of fiscal 2025.
During the fiscal, the quantum of low rated pool of BB and below accounts (excluding investments and non-fund based
exposure) decreased and stood at `2,548 crores as compared to
`2,978 crores at the end of fiscal 2024. The aggregate outstanding
Gross and Net NPA (%)
in such low rated pool of BB and below investments and non-fund
based accounts was `932 crores and `1,056 crores respectively as at 3.70
the end of March 2025. 2.82
2.02
The fund based outstanding of standard loans under COVID -19
1.43 1.28
resolution scheme at 31 March, 2025 stood at `1,209 crores 1.05 0.73
or ~0.11% of gross customer assets. The linked non fund based 0.39 0.31 0.33
outstanding for which there has been no change in original terms Mar-21 Mar-22 Mar-23 Mar-24 Mar-25
stood at `630 crores. Outstanding restructured loans under the
Gross NPA as % to Gross customer assets
MSME scheme stood at `150 crores. The Bank holds a provision of
Net NPA as % to Net customer assets
`392 crores on these restructured assets including linked accounts.
Key ratios
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24
Basic earnings per share (`) 85.28 80.67
Diluted earnings per share (`) 84.77 80.10
Book value per share (`) 576.67 486.74
Return on equity (%) 16.52% 18.86%
Return on assets (%) 1.74% 1.83%
Net interest margin (%) 3.98% 4.07%
Profit per employee (` lakh) 25.45 25.29
Loan to Deposit ratio (Domestic) 88.47% 88.88%
Loan to Deposit ratio (Global) 88.73% 90.31%
Basic Earnings per Share (EPS) was `85.28 compared to `80.67 last year, while the Diluted EPS was `84.77 compared to
`80.10 last year.
Return on Equity (RoE) was 16.52% for fiscal 2025 as compared to 18.86% in fiscal 2024. Return on Assets (RoA) was 1.74%
in fiscal 2025 from 1.83% last year. Book Value per Share increased by 18% to `576.67 from `486.74 last year while profit
per employee remained stable at `25.45 lakhs per employee.
Loan to Deposit (CD) ratio of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 was at 88.73% with a domestic CD ratio of 88.47%.
Balance Sheet parameters
Assets
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Cash and bank balances 99,732 114,454 (13%)
Government securities 308,076 247,816 24%
Other securities 88,066 83,711 5%
Total investments 396,142 331,527 19%
240 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Retail advances 622,897 583,265 7%
Corporate advances 299,393 278,149 8%
SME advances 118,521 103,654 14%
Total advances 1,040,811 965,068 8%
Fixed assets 6,292 5,685 11%
Other assets1 66,953 60,474 11%
Total assets 1,609,930 1,477,209 9%
1 includes Priority Sector Lending deposits of `14,450 crores (previous year `21,557 crores)
Total assets increased by 9% to `1,609,930 crores as on 31 March, 2025 from `1,477,209 crores as on 31 March, 2024,
driven by 8% growth in advances and 19% growth in investments.
Advances
Total advances of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 increased by
(` in crores)
8% to `1,040,811 crores from `965,068 crores as on 31 March,
Advances
2024. Retail advances comprised 60% of total advances and
grew by 7% to `622,897 crores, corporate advances comprised 118,521
103,654
29% of total advances and grew by 8% to `299,393 crores and
89,398 299,393
SME advances constituted 11% of total advances and grew by 75,223 278,149
268,334
14% to `118,521 crores. 59,034
232,582
224,062
Domestic advances of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 grew by 583,265 622,897
487,571
8% to `1,011,101, crores from `936,465 crores as on 31 March, 331,304 400,142
2024. Further, domestic corporate advances of the Bank as
on 31 March, 2025 increased by 8% to `271,471 crores from Mar-21 Mar-22 Mar-23 Mar-24 Mar-25
`251,331 crores as on 31 March, 2024. Retail Corporate SME
Home loans remain the largest retail segment and accounted for
Retail Advances as % to Total Advances
27% of retail loans, rural lending (Bharat Banking) 16%, loans
60% 60%
57% 58%
54% against property (LAP) 12%, personal loans (PL) and credit cards
(CC) were 19%, auto loans 9% and Small Banking Business (SBB)
were 11%, while non-schematic loans comprising loan against
deposits and other loans accounted for 6%.
Investments
The investment portfolio of the Bank grew by 19% to `396,142
crores. Investments in Government and approved securities,
increased by 24% to `308,076 crores. Other investments,
including corporate debt securities, increased by 5% to `88,066
Mar-21 Mar-22 Mar-23 Mar-24 Mar-25
crores. Out of these, 66% are in Held to Maturity (HTM) category,
12% of investments are Available for Sale (AFS), 20% are in Fair Value through Profit & Loss (FVTPL) category and 2% are
investments in Subsidiaries and Associate.
Other Assets
Other assets of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 increased to `66,953 crores from `60,474 crores as on 31 March, 2024,
primarily on account of increase in Mark-to-Market (MTM) asset on forex and derivative contracts amounting to `20,496
crores as on 31 March, 2025 as compared to `12,430 crores as on 31 March, 2024 which was partially offset by decrease in
Priority Sector Shortfall deposits from `21,557 crores as on 31 March, 2024 to `14,450 crores on 31 March, 2025.
241
Statutory reports
Liabilities and shareholder’s funds
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Capital 619 617 0.3%
Reserves and Surplus 177,998 149,618 19%
Total shareholder’s funds 178,617 150,235 19%
Employee stock option outstanding (net) 1,108 827 34%
Deposits 1,172,952 1,068,641 10%
- Current account deposits 166,799 157,268 6%
- Savings bank deposits 311,389 302,132 3%
- CASA 478,188 459,400 4%
- Term deposits 694,764 609,241 14%
Borrowings 184,147 196,812 (6%)
- In India 149,839 160,734 (7%)
- Infra bonds 20,551 22,331 ( 8%)
- Outside India 34,308 36,078 (5%)
Other liabilities and provisions 73,106 60,694 20%
Total liabilities and shareholder’s funds 1,609,930 1,477,209 9%
Shareholder’s funds
Shareholder’s funds of the Bank increased from `150,235 crores as on 31 March, 2024 to `178,617 crores as on 31 March,
2025. This is mainly on account of profits earned during the year.
Deposits (` in crores)
Deposits
The total deposits of the Bank increased by 10% to `1,172,952
694,764
crores against `1,068,641 crores last year. Savings Bank 609,241
500,409
deposits reported a growth of 3% to `311,389 crores, while
451,966
Current Account deposits reported increase of 6% to `166,799
380,237
crores. As on 31 March, 2025, low-cost CASA deposits stood
at `478,188 crores, and constituted 41% of total deposits. On 297,416 302,132 311,389
242,449
a daily average basis, Savings Bank deposits, increased by 1% 204,473
to `285,104 crores, while Current Account deposits grew by 113,276 127,557 149,120 157,268 166,799
9% to `128,315 crores. The percentage share of CASA in total Mar-21 Mar-22 Mar-23 Mar-24 Mar-25
deposits, on a daily average basis, was at 39.26% compared to Current Savings Term
42.54% last year.
Borrowings
The total borrowings of the Bank declined by 6% from `196,812 crores in fiscal 2024 to `184,147 crores in fiscal 2025. The
Bank has issued debt instrument amounting to `3,925 crores in the form of “long term bonds against Infrastructure and
affordable housing” (Infrastructure bonds) in India. Further, Subordinated Debt amounting to `850 crores and Infrastructure
Bonds amounting to `5,705 crores got matured during the year.
Other Liabilities and provisions
Other liabilities of the Bank increased by 20% over the year to `73,106 crores as on 31 March, 2025 from `60,694 crores
as on 31 March, 2024, which is mainly on account of increase in Mark-to-Market (MTM) liability on forex and derivative
contracts to `19,929 crores as compared to `12,806 crores last year.
242 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Contingent Liability
(` in crores)
Particulars 2024-25 2023-24 % change
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts 1,477 2,453 (40%)
Liability for partly paid investments 127 -
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 1,256,589 840,387 50%
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts 1,369,593 821,190 67%
- Interest Rate Swaps, Currency Swaps, Forward Rate Agreement & Interest 1,236,293 779,085 59%
Rate Futures
- Foreign Currency Options 133,300 42,105 217%
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents 1,41,189 128,127 10%
- In India 121,699 106,812 14%
- Outside India 19,490 21,315 (9%)
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 55,341 59,087 (6%)
Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable 51,332 57,648 (11%)
Total 2,875,648 1,908,892 51%
Capital Management
The Bank continues its endeavour for greater capital efficiency and shoring up its capital adequacy to enhance shareholder value.
The Bank’s overall capital adequacy ratio (CAR) under Basel III stood at 17.07% at the end of the year, well above the
benchmark requirement of 11.50% stipulated by Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Of this, the Common Equity Tier I (CET I) CAR
was 14.67% (against minimum regulatory requirement of 8.00%) and Tier I CAR was 15.07% (against minimum regulatory
requirement of 9.50%). As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s Tier II CAR under Basel III stood at 2%.
The organic business of the Bank accreted 93 bps (net) of CET I in fiscal 2025.
Movement of CET I during fiscal 2025 %
CET I as on 31 March, 2024 13.74
Accretion 2.37
Consumption (1.44)
CET 1 as on 31 March, 2025 14.67
The Bank’s Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) to Asset ratio as at the end of fiscal 2025 was 72%. The Bank’s capital position
continues to be strong and is sufficiently robust for it to pursue growth opportunities with adequate liquidity buffers.
The following table sets forth the capital, risk-weighted assets and capital adequacy ratios computed as on 31 March, 2025
and 31 March, 2024 in accordance with the applicable RBI guidelines under Basel III.
(` in crores)
PARTICULARS 2024-25 2023-24
Tier I capital 173,944 147,633
Tier II capital 23,113 25,231
Out of which
- Tier II capital instruments 14,846 16,992
- Other eligible for Tier II capital 8,267 8,239
Total capital qualifying for computation of capital adequacy ratio 197,057 172,864
Total risk-weighted assets and contingencies 1,154,075 1,039,313
Total capital adequacy ratio 17.07% 16.63%
Out of above
- Common equity tier I capital ratio 14.67% 13.74%
- Tier I capital ratio 15.07% 14.20%
- Tier II capital ratio 2.00% 2.43%
243
Statutory reports
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
In 2019, we launched our ‘Growth Profitability and Sustainability’ strategy, also known as the ‘House of GPS’. Over the years,
as part of annual reviews of the House of GPS, we have added areas of distinctiveness, key themes for the Bank to focus
on and other changes to reflect the priorities of the Bank and accounting for the changing environment. The House of GPS,
as it stands today, continues to reflect our aspirations and remain relevant. Our overall strategy, and specific business and
function strategies, are aligned with our core philosophy of GPS –
• Growth: Accelerate deposits growth, focus on profitable advances, achievement of leadership positions across our
focus areas, drive One Axis-led growth across the Group and scale-up of subsidiaries and Axis Digital Bank
• Profitability: Focus on profitability and NIM, growth in fee income, improve operating efficiency, optimise costs,
strengthen collections infrastructure and maintain control over credit cost
• Sustainability: Strengthen governance across the Group with an integrated assurance approach to enhance risk
management, robust audit and compliance culture, retain high-quality talent, strengthen underwriting, technology and
analytical capabilities and a robust operations platform
As part of the GPS initiatives, under the ‘One Axis’ vision, we are focused on creating a ‘one-stop’ solution for banking needs
by integrating the strengths of the subsidiaries with the Bank.
We have several noteworthy achievements in fiscal 2025. Our best-in-class mobile banking application, digital/analytical
capabilities, and emerging technology, such as generative AI, gives us the right to win in digital banking. The Bank focuses on
reimagining end-to-end journeys, transforming the core and becoming a partner of choice for ecosystems. We successfully
completed integrating Citi’s consumer business in July 2024. While the macro-economic environment continues to evolve
amidst geo-political uncertainties, India remains a bright economic spot, giving us an incredible opportunity to tap into
the growing capex/infrastructure/investment boom. We have a self-sustaining capital structure with our CET-1 accretion
adequate to fund organic growth. Our transformation projects have enabled us to reach closer to our GPS ambitions –
‘Neo for Business’ (offers end-to-end digital journeys with DIY onboarding, for banking as well as beyond-banking needs
of MSMEs), ‘Siddhi’ (a super app that empowers our colleagues to engage seamlessly with customers), granularisation and
premiumisation of liability franchise, focus on cost optimisation, drive collections transformation and set up next generation
collections architecture for the Bank. We have also started yielding visible results due to our investments in long-term
‘distinctiveness’ drivers – ‘Digital 2.0’ (becoming India’s Best Tech Bank), Bharat Banking (tapping the high growth potential
in rural and semi-urban markets), ‘Sparsh’ (customer obsession program to aid improvement in NPS rankings).
We remain committed to our GPS strategy of working towards Growth, Profitability and Sustainability over the medium-
term and aim to become a resilient, all-weather franchise.
Retail Banking
The Bank has over the last decade built a strong Retail Banking franchise that continues to be a key driver of the Bank’s overall
growth strategy. The Bank’s focused customer-centric approach, strong and differentiated product offerings, along with its
wide distribution network remain the core pillars through which it continues to serve the financial needs and aspirations of
its customers.
The Retail business segment provides a complete bouquet of products across deposits, transaction services, wealth
management and lending products for retail customers, small businesses, NRIs (non-resident Indians) and retail institutions,
backed by innovative, digital-first solutions.
The Bank offers a wide range of retail liability products, including savings accounts, current accounts, fixed deposits, recurring
deposits, and other customized deposit options, catering to the diverse needs of customers. Retail lending products include
home loans, loans against property, automobile loans, two-wheeler loans, commercial vehicle loans, personal loans, gold
loans, education loans, credit cards, small business banking loans and agriculture loans among others.
The Bank’s Retail Banking business unit also offers other products and services such as debit and credit cards, forex cards,
bill payment services and wealth management services. The Bank also distributes third party products such as mutual funds,
life and non-life insurance policies, Government bonds, etc.
244 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
The Bank’s strategy in Retail has been to gain a larger share of the wallet of existing customers, acquire quality new customers,
and deliver a best-in-class experience, thus building customer loyalty. In line with its customer centric approach, the Bank
continued its strong focus on holistic customer lifecycle management, led by its strong data analytics and technology, to
engage in meaningful conversations and provide the right product proposition. The Bank has made strong progress in
digitization of sales, service, and branch operations to offer seamless and intelligent banking experience to its customers.
The Bank believes that it is well-positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities in the Indian retail financial services market,
led by its strong liability franchise, well diversified products portfolio and robust data analytics and technological capabilities.
During the fiscal year 2025, the Retail segment contributed 73% to the Bank’s deposits in the form of CASA and Retail Term
Deposits; 60% to the Bank’s advances and 72% to the Bank’s fee income.
Retail Deposits
The Bank has made significant progress in key areas, particularly in acquiring savings accounts (SA). The acquisition channels
have become more self-sufficient, resulting in a 13% Y-o-Y growth in Retail SA. By strategically increasing the average ticket
size in metro and urban markets, there was a 17% Y-o-Y increase in the average ticket size. Additionally, efforts to attract
premium customers led to a 140 basis points rise in the share of premium customers. New-to-bank (NTB) salary uploads
improved by 18% Y-o-Y.
Operational improvements also contributed significantly to growth. Over 50 process enhancements reduced the account
opening turnaround time from 7 days to 3 days, improving onboarding efficiency. The increased use of the “Siddhi” App,
seamless cross-sell journeys, and smart nudges enhanced the overall ease of doing business for both customers and
employees. Furthermore, the introduction of an effort-based credit architecture for term deposit led to a 41% increase in
inflows for March, 2025.
The focus on premiumization of deposits will continue by increasing the share of premium accounts in overall acquisitions,
targeting high-value customers. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we have shifted towards premiumization in
mass market variants, focusing on high-value customer segments while reducing reliance on lower-variant offerings in
metro and urban branches. This strategy aligns with market dynamics and our commitment to enhancing profitability
and brand positioning. We aim to further strengthen our premium product portfolio, leverage technology, and enhance
customer experiences. This strategic focus will drive sustainable long-term growth and establish leadership in the
premium banking segment. We have also streamlined processes by reducing friction points, enhancing digital journeys, and
empowering service channels like phone banking, leading to fewer complaints and improved Net Promoter Scores (NPS). The
Bank maintained a steady share of CASA deposits at 41% of total deposits at the end of fiscal 2025.
The Corporate Salary Suvidha proposition has been further explored to make better inroads into corporate clients. Key
requirements for corporates wanting to disburse reimbursements to their employees were activated both physically and
digitally through Employee Reimbursement Accounts, ensuring easy and quick conversions compared to paper-based accounts.
Worksites in corporates were transformed and innovated beyond the traditional helpdesk approach. We added brand
partnerships with the largest electric two-wheeler companies, multinational electronics, and consumer durable companies for
deeper employee engagement at worksites and induction programs.
We also launched a Special Suvidha Masterclass series with curated topics such as digital fraud prevention, tax filing, succession
planning, financial and estate planning, and will writing through virtual sessions for employees in top corporates.
The Bank continues to focus on fraud prevention and regulatory features, strengthening the onboarding mechanism with
thorough verification of customer details via NSDL and UIDAI checks, complete authentication of customer contact details,
enhanced customer profiling checks, and redesigning the geo-tagging process for address verification.
Digital banking is enhancing the retail liabilities franchise by enabling the Bank to source more accounts through seamless
onboarding, personalized offerings, and data-driven engagement. Additionally, digital banking strengthens the overall
customer relationship value by integrating savings, investments, and lending products into a unified experience, fostering long-
term loyalty and higher wallet share.
In the transformational space centered around customer experience, the Bank launched a Lean Digital Savings Onboarding
journey for existing assets and payments customers, where all their demographic details and Know-your-customer (KYC)
245
Statutory reports
are pre-filled in the savings application, and only incremental or missing details are fetched from the customer along with
the necessary initial funding. In the assisted mobile-based onboarding space, the Bank is an early adopter of UIDAI’s facial
recognition technology-based KYC, allowing customers to be onboarded based on face match with customer records in the
Aadhar repository. The Bank also enabled a savings application tracker that allows customers to check real-time updates and
status of the savings application from submission to account activation seamlessly.
The Bank continued to focus on retail term deposits throughout the year by leveraging new individual customers through its
strong acquisition channels. This was complemented by the revamp of its journeys on digital channels, such as the ability to
book fixed deposits (FD) from outside funds and booking non-callable FDs online. Individual current account (CA) customers
can now seamlessly book FDs via WhatsApp. Total term deposits increased by 14% Y-o-Y in fiscal 2025.
During the year, the Bank introduced several new product propositions, including the ‘ARISE’ savings account for women and
the Doctors Banking Program, to offer the best banking services and life experiences under one bouquet. Premiumization of
the deposits franchise continues to be an important imperative for the bank.
ARISE Savings Account
During the year, the Bank launched the ARISE savings account, a thoughtfully designed proposition for women seeking
financial security, independence, and growth. Women customers have always been at the forefront of disciplined saving,
often maintaining higher balances in fixed deposits and mutual funds.
With ARISE, we aim to not only enhance our deposit focus but also provide a product that caters to women’s unique financial
needs, whether they are balancers securing their family’s future, simplicity seekers building emergency funds, or go-getters
with long-term saving goals. When we solve for women, we solve for everyone.
Doctors Banking Program
In line with the premiumization strategy of the Bank, we launched a Doctors Banking Program specifically targeting doctors
as a micro-segment, which constitutes a high-income cohort. We intend to take a holistic “One Axis” proposition to them
with this program, catering to all their needs comprehensively and increasing cross-selling opportunities for the Bank,
thereby building stickiness with these customers.
Branch Banking
To serve the customers better and deepen relationships with them, the Bank has organically built a well-diversified branch
network over the years. The Bank continues to look at the segments and demographic areas that are relevant to the Retail
Banking strategy, before setting up a branch. The new branch additions have been balanced and well diversified across
Metro and Urban locations and RuSu (Rural and Semi Urban) regions as the Bank continues to focus on improving the market
share across districts led by micro market focused approach.
During fiscal 2025, the Bank crossed a milestone of 5,800 branches as it opened 500 new branches, thereby reinforcing its
commitment towards making banking solutions accessible to diversified segments of customers. As on 31 March, 2025, the
Bank had a network of 6,265 branch banking outlets with 5,865 branches, 3 Digital Banking Units, 11 extension counters,
152 specialised branches (lending centers) and 234 Business Correspondent and Banking Outlets (BCBO). The Bank also has
extensive network of 13,941 ATMs and Recyclers, which not only handle the cash deposits and withdrawals, but also serve
as self-service and fulfilment centres. The Bank’s geographical reach in India now extends to 692 districts across 28 states
and 7 union territories.
The Bank promotes a fair and equitable relationship between the Bank and its customers. The Bank treats all customers fairly
and does not discriminate customers on any grounds such as gender, age, religion, caste, literacy, economic status, or physical
disability. To cater to the needs of “persons with disabilities”, the Bank has enabled its ATMs with braille keypad and talking
functionality (voice guidance). In respect of Bank branches which are not easily accessible, ramps are constructed wherever
feasible, for facilitating access to persons with disabilities. Adequate seating arrangements and support for banking services
are provided. Certain large offices have special equipment, such as stretchers and wheelchairs for ease of movement. We
also provide doorstep banking for ease of operations for senior citizens and persons with disabilities. Customers in need of
assistance can contact the designated officer at their branch or may bring it to the notice of the Nodal Officer.
246 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Retail Lending
Retail lending continues to be a high growth sector in India, driven by a large affluent customer base, a young population, and
growing needs of the Indian consumer.
The Bank’s retail loan book exhibited well diversified growth across the portfolio. Throughout the fiscal year, the Bank
focused on driving growth in prioritized products and preferred customer segments, which was facilitated by its advanced
analytics-driven underwriting and comprehensive risk management framework.
The Bank’s retail lending strategy is focused on deepening relationships with the existing-to-bank (ETB) customers via its
branch network and digital platforms, while also focusing on select segments to drive new-to-bank volumes.
The Bank has embarked on multiple transformation projects across product segments to introduce end-to-end digital
journeys for customer onboarding across channels, enhance customer experience, improve employee productivity, and
reduce turnaround times.
Siddhi, the Bank’s comprehensive mobile platform, now supports the entire frontline retail lending team, enabling faster loan
application processing, while offering a holistic view of the customer to the sales architecture, and a tightened sales rhythm
to drive productivity.
The Bank’s mortgages segment comprising of Home Loans and Loans against Property (LAP) delivered sustained growth,
with improving profit metrics in fiscal 2025. During the year, the Bank made progress in its Digital Home Loan journeys by
providing real-time sanctions to customers at builder sites. The Bank has also introduced an e-Disbursement journey which
includes capabilities of e-NACH setup, digital payments, e-stamping, & e-signing for document execution. This has enabled
simplification of customer onboarding, with a reduced turnaround time.
We have seen moderation in unsecured loan growth at an overall industry level, primarily driven by Credit Cards and Personal
Loans. The Bank continues to grow the personal loan segment in a risk-calibrated manner through various initiatives,
including enhanced end-to-end digital journeys. ~79% of the Bank’s personal loans originate from internal customers, with a
significant portion coming through pre-qualified programs, ensuring portfolio risk remains within defined guardrails.
A strategic program to digitize education loans is underway which will enable real-time integration with channel partners.
The Bank continued building strong OEM and corporate relationship in the Wheels business, and focused on high yielding
sub-segment of pre-owned vehicle financing. The Bank’s digital lending platform (Maximus) was launched in fiscal 2023 and
within 2 years ~72% of new car loans are digitally processed through this platform. This fiscal, the Bank also launched end-
to-end digital journey for two-wheeler loans, with 100% digital disbursement.
The Bank continues to invest in sustainable and profitable growth by expanding organic distribution, increasing share from
channel partners, improving risk management frameworks, and strengthening our processes.
Bharat Banking
India’s economic landscape is undergoing a significant transformation, marked by robust GDP growth, rapid digital adoption,
and targeted financial initiatives. These developments are particularly impactful in rural and semi-urban regions, where
enhanced connectivity, digital services and financial inclusion are unlocking new opportunities. Embracing the theme “Har
Raah Dil Se Open,” we are dedicated to leverage these advancements to unlock opportunities across rural and semi-urban
landscapes. By integrating our existing infrastructure with digital technologies, the aim is to provide seamless financial
services, empower communities, grow our presence in white spaces and contribute to the nation’s inclusive growth journey.
Our distribution network has expanded to 2,736 branches in RuSu markets, complemented by the 28k+ strong Common
Service Centers (CSC) Village Level Entrepreneurs network. We have enabled additional 250+ branches in fiscal 2025. We
have also expanded our partnership network to 25+ partners with large names across industries such as Agri-techs, Fintechs,
corporates and NBFCs’ with deeper rural presence leveraging their network to cater to the last mile customers.
Bharat Banking continues to deliver on the growth trajectory with advances and deposits growing 7% and 9% in fiscal 2025
Y-o-Y, from the RuSu markets.
247
Statutory reports
The digital transformation journey continued in fiscal 2025. Our key focus on digitization is e-KYC, e-NACH, e-Sign and
e-Stamp along with pre-screening for early decisioning (across verticals). Farm Mechanization was the 1st business vertical
to go-live in SFDC (LOS) with 100% adoption (for New tractors). Our MFI-retail journey is end-to-end (e2e) digital with
digital agreement (supported by e-Sign/e-Stamp). As on March 2025, we have also enabled Micro-loan in this new e2e digital
platform. In fiscal 2026, we target to onboard 3 key verticals in SFDC digital – Bharat Enterprise B2B retail, Farmer funding
(KCC) and Micro-LAP. This aside, we are instilling operation risk control measures on our Gold loan journey through digital
means and plan to offer Digital instant CASA journey for all our Bharat Banking verticals, to drive our deposit books.
As One Axis, we continue to drive focused initiatives to expand in Bharat’s key ecosystems. One of our initiatives, “Mandi
Mitra” aims to capture the entire value chain within the Mandi ecosystem. Pertaining to the top 100 high-turnover Mandis,
aiming for a 10% annual increase in the Bank’s assets and liabilities share. With expansion into 423 Mandis and permanent
branding in key locations, we are strengthening our presence, offering a comprehensive product suite, and leveraging data-
driven lending solutions.
Customer referral program with “Connecting the Dots” initiative yielded 97,000+ conversions in fiscal 2025, and has now
entered Phase 2, impacting over 14 lakh beneficiaries through deeper engagement in both Bharat and non-Bharat branches.
We continue to focus on building a partnership ecosystem. Through collaborations with CSC, ITC Agribusiness, and others,
we have delivered over `30,000 crores in disbursements and opened 9 lakh+ liability accounts over the past 3 years. In fiscal
2025 alone, the partnership channel contributed `10,000 crores in disbursements, 2 lakh+ CASA accounts, and launched
innovations like Gold on UPI.
Fiscal 2025 has been a year of prudent growth in the Agri and MFI sector, with a balanced approach to managing external
risks while steadfastly supporting rural entrepreneurs and fostering financial inclusion.
Risk & Compliance measures are being strengthened by aligning with regulatory requirements for priority sector lending
(PSL), ensuring adherence to evolving guidelines. Additionally, a structured approach to collections is being implemented,
leveraging digital payment solutions and on-ground engagement models to improve recovery efficiency. The Bank continues
to drive financial inclusion across the country through Government Sponsored Schemes, improving financial literacy through
trainings, working with BC partners to distribute banking products, and taking several actions to increase credit & deposit
penetration in RuSu markets.
Retail Payments
The payments industry is experiencing rapid transformation, driven by significant changes in customer spending behavior
and a dynamic regulatory environment. A notable surge in non-cash transactions reflects a growing preference for cashless
payment methods. This shift is further accelerated by the government’s strong push for digital payments, which has led to
wider customer adoption. As a result, the industry is witnessing substantial progress and unlocking vast opportunities for
continued growth.
The payments business remains a cornerstone of the Bank’s Retail Banking strategy, serving as the primary touchpoint
of the franchise by enhancing customer engagement and driving profitability. The Bank continues to prioritize customer
acquisition, particularly through the issuance of fee-based cards that demonstrate higher activation and usage rates.
Simultaneously, it focuses on deepening engagement with low-risk customers by implementing targeted portfolio programs.
These initiatives are supported by robust risk management practices designed to mitigate early-stage risks from vulnerable
customer segments. The Bank had ~15 million cards in force with a market share of ~14% as of 31 March, 2025. The credit
cards business also touched the highest ever yearly spends of `226,645 crores, up 12% Y-o-Y, yet another milestone for the
business.
The Bank has established co-brand partnerships with leading players across diverse sectors including e-commerce, fintech,
telecom, fuel, retail, airlines, and consumer durables enabling it to cater to the unique needs of every customer segment
with differentiated offerings. These strategic alliances are a testament to the Bank’s position as a preferred partner, driven
by its strong product suite and supported by a robust and resilient technology infrastructure. The Bank’s ‘Flipkart Axis Bank
Credit Card’ co-branded card achieved yet another significant milestone of ~4 million cards, establishing itself as one of the
most powerful co-branded card offering since its introduction in July 2019. The Bank’s partnership card spends continued
to exceed industry benchmarks in terms of activation and card usage, with better risk outcomes.
248 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
The Bank now provides cards across all four networks, offering customers enhanced flexibility and choice. By expanding its
portfolio of proprietary and co-branded cards, the Bank is fortifying its partnerships across these networks. Additionally,
the Bank has elevated its ultra-high-net-worth individual (UHNI) offerings with the introduction of the prestigious “Primus
Card.”
Over the past few years, the Bank has significantly enhanced its technology platform to support greater processing capacity,
integrate additional APIs, and ensure compliance with the Payment Application Data Security Standard (PA DSS). During the
year, several key digital initiatives—such as end-to-end digital issuance, Video KYC, and real-time income estimation—have
been implemented with real-time decisioning on partner platforms. These advancements have collectively contributed to
a more seamless and enriched customer experience. The Cards business continues to operate within clearly defined risk
guardrails. Strengthened onboarding controls to address emerging early-stage risks, along with more resilient collection
practices, have contributed to maintaining healthy asset quality. This disciplined risk management approach has empowered
the Bank to confidently deepen customer engagement and drive sustained business growth.
In the Merchant Acquiring Business (MAB), the Bank has maintained its position as a leading merchant acquirer, achieving a
terminal market share of ~20% as of March 2025. The Bank’s ongoing investments in technology have significantly enhanced
both product offerings and the overall merchant user experience.
The Bank continues to deliver a robust value proposition in the MAB segment, offering a diverse range of products tailored to
various markets, business segments, and geographic regions. The year saw the launch of Neo for Merchants, a comprehensive
mobile application designed to serve all merchant payment needs. Additionally, we introduced the NFC Soundbox, capable
of accepting both UPI and contactless card transactions, enhancing payment convenience and efficiency.
As part of our merchant stack, the Bank excels in providing deep integrations and developing customized solutions,
demonstrating our commitment to addressing the unique requirements of our clients across different sectors.
Under the ‘One Axis’ approach, the MAB team is successful in being the Bank to the merchant offering liabilities, assets,
and third-party products. Collaborations with ecosystem solution providers have enabled segment-specific solutions to
meet diverse customer needs. These initiatives have driven strong growth in cross-selling, high-value CA deposits, and asset
sourcing.
In the UPI payments domain, the Bank remains committed to differentiating itself as a leading payment franchise in the
country and striving to deliver superior customer and merchant experience with a keen focus on customer-centric innovations.
The Bank consolidated its strong presence in the UPI space with a market share of 33.3% as Payer PSP by volumes as of
March 2025 as against 26% in March 2024, achieving and sustaining the number 1 position amongst Payer PSP banks since
August 2024. This was achieved on the back of a two-pronged strategy of partnerships with new fintech players and
continued deepening of existing partnerships with tech giants like PhonePe, Google Pay, Amazon and WhatsApp. Additionally,
the Bank maintained its status as a preferred acquirer, securing a 19% market share in P2M acquiring throughput as of
March 2025. During the year, the Bank went live with several new lending partnerships, providing them payments solutions
while receiving corporate flows through these partnerships. There was sustained growth of Credit on UPI for both issuing
and acquiring and new launches such as UPI Circle which further demonstrated the Bank’s capability to drive the organic
volume growth of UPI transactions. The Bank now has more than 183 crore customer VPAs registered as on 31 March, 2025.
The Bank continues to focus on building a robust IT infrastructure and upgrading IT capabilities due to which the Bank has
one of the lowest technical decline rates in the industry and is amongst the leading payments solution provider.
Retail Forex and Remittance business
To facilitate cross border transactions, the Bank offers Forex Cards, Inward and Outward remittance services to its retail
customers through branch and digital channels.
On Forex Cards, the Bank continues to focus on strengthening its digital journeys with new enhancements such as digital
reloads and automated discounts based on customer value score. These initiatives have helped grow the digital footprint to
over 90% on all fresh issuances for retail customers. The bulk upload feature introduced for corporates enables seamless
and efficient reloading of multiple cards simultaneously thus saving time and offering convenience to corporates. Curated
offers on the Multi-currency Forex Card were launched during the year to cater to customers travelling overseas for leisure,
to countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. Customer Value Propositions (CVP’s) on the forex card are being further
249
Statutory reports
refined to bring sharper focus to three customer segments basis purpose of travel viz. student, business and leisure. Our
long-term growth strategy is aligned to building distribution and scale in these three travel segments for Forex Cards.
To complement the Bank’s deposit mobilization drive, customers have been encouraged to bring in their remittances from
abroad using the inward wire transfer and digital Remit Money portal, offered by Axis Bank. Customers were segmented
basis their residential status and transaction history, among other variables. Curated offers on pricing were offered to drive
customer loyalty and repeat transactions.
Customer convenience and ease of doing business has been at the forefront of the Bank’s endeavors to simplify product
journeys. ‘T’ day (same day) credit on inward wire transfer remittances has been enabled making Axis Bank, one of the
leading players to offer this service in the industry. Funds get credited to the customer’s account the same day as against
the erstwhile lag of one day. Additionally, the Bank has reviewed and increased the purpose codes for STP (straight through
processing) from 5 to 41 and the STP transaction limits have also been increased from `15 lakhs to `25 lakhs. This enables
transactions to get processed faster for the specified list of purpose codes, without the requirement of documentation.
Remit Money, the Bank’s digital platform, now offers 3X higher limits and faster transfers on the USD-INR corridor.
Customers can benefit from enhanced transaction limits from $10,000 to $30,000 on self-transfers, apart from competitive
pricing offered on the portal. All Citi customers were seamlessly migrated to this platform in July 2024. Customers can also
use the Bank’s vostro partnerships with Correspondent Banks and Exchange Houses to remit funds to India, apart from wire
transfer and remit money services.
On Outward Remittances, the Bank launched overseas remittances to GIFT city through digital channels. This allows
customers the convenience of transacting digitally without the need to visit the branch. The Bank has also invested in
building technical solutions which can be integrated through API’s with strategic partners to expand the acquisition network
through this tie up. The Bank’s growing partnerships with fintechs and online stockbrokers has led to 64% of transactions in
fiscal 2025 getting processed digitally as against 45% last year.
During the year, the Bank has complied with all regulatory guidelines as per the directives released by RBI and other
authorities relating to cross border remittances. System level changes have been successfully implemented to validate the
customer’s PAN details with that available on the NSDL portal. Projects related to system level integration of the Bank’s
forex related systems with that of RBI for the purpose of checking the LRS (Liberalized Remittance Scheme) limit utilization
across banks are under development. As per the Union Budget 2025 announced by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Bank
has implemented revision of TCS (Tax Collected at Source) limits from `7 lakhs to `10 lakhs which came into effect from
1 April, 2025.
The Bank handled Retail Forex volumes of USD $5.4 billion during fiscal 2025 and has an active customer base of ~4 lakhs
on Retail Forex products.
Third Party Distribution
Axis Bank is one of the leading distributors of third-party products which includes Mutual funds, Life insurance, General &
Health insurance products, National pension system, Digital Gold.
The Bank offers comprehensive bouquet of investment, protection and retirement solutions that caters to the diverse needs
of each customer segment.
In fiscal 2025, third party distribution business contributed significantly to the Bank’s retail fee income growth on back of its
strong partnerships, contextual product launches, wide distribution strength and digital initiatives.
As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s mutual fund assets under management (AUM) stood at `91,661 crores, reaffirming its
position as the third largest banking distributor in the industry. The Bank serviced a mutual fund customer base of ~12
lakhs as on 31 March, 2025, reflecting growing investor trust and engagement.
Leveraging insights from its dedicated in-house research desk, the Bank curates and recommends mutual fund schemes
based on a robust combination of qualitative and quantitative parameters. At present the Bank distributes mutual fund
products from 25 leading Asset management companies (AMCs) through its extensive branch network and digital platforms,
aligning investment offerings with customers’ life stages and financial goals.
250 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
In addition to mutual funds, the Bank also provides access to select Alternate Investment products from SEBI-registered
providers, offering customers a broader range of wealth creation opportunities.
The Bank offers online as well as offline trading services to its customers in collaboration with Axis Securities Ltd. under the
brand name Axis Direct. Through its branches, the Bank has sourced ~6.36 million total customers for Axis Direct with 7.7
lakh customers being added in fiscal 2025.
The Bank continued to be one of the largest Bancassurance player in terms of both Life and Non-Life Insurance volume
among private Banks with an annual fee growth of 39% in Life Insurance and 11% in Non-Life insurance in fiscal 2025.
The Bank’s strategy of adopting a Digital first approach, tailormade solutions in Health Insurance with segmental product
launches led to growth of 13% in topline premium placement for its insurance partners.
By securing more than 1.6 lakh+ retail accounts for National Pension System product, the Bank improved its retail market
share to 21% from 13% in fiscal 2025 and thereby becoming number 1 in POP space in terms of new business. Continued
innovation in this space includes Digital integration journeys in core Bank platforms and enabling SIP option for customers
to invest.
The Bank has an innovative user-friendly digital interface - Axis Marketplace - to facilitate distribution of insurance
solutions. Axis Marketplace offers third-party products integrated directly with insurance partner systems thereby
providing seamless journeys and instant issuance facilities.
The Bank continues to focus on reimagining end to end journeys and build a digital ecosystem for Investment Products on
its mobile banking app and internet banking to ensure seamless access anytime, anywhere.
Wealth Management
The Bank’s wealth management business has been strategically built out over the years to cater to the evolving needs of
its affluent customer base. We recognise that the wealth management needs differ for our customer cohorts viz. affluent
salaried customers, entrepreneurs, senior citizens or NRIs. At the core of our proposition, is our unwavering commitment to
grow and preserve customers’ wealth. Accordingly, we have partnered with many players in the asset management space,
to offer select schemes across Portfolio Management Services (PMS), Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs), Debt and fixed
income, and mutual funds. In fiscal 2025, we started new partnerships with 3 mutual fund AMCs, and 17 PMS and AIFs, post
careful due diligence, to expand options for our customers.
The overall assets under management facilitated by the Bank for its customers grew to more than `1 trillion as on
31 March, 2025. The number of new SIPs booked by our customers through digital as well as physical modes grew from
~5 lakhs in fiscal 2024 to more than 6 lakhs in fiscal 2025, with ~80% contributed through digital channels.
The Bank also has a team of wealth experts who have deep knowledge of diverse wealth products (PMS, AIFs, Debt and fixed
income, Mutual funds). They are supported by an in-house economic research, asset management partners and the Axis franchise
across our subsidiaries to meticulously create investment options based on our clients’ financial goals. This strategy ensures that
the Bank provides all its customers the very best in products & services based on their needs and profile.
In line with changing customer behaviour and preferences, the Bank has continued to deliver and enhance intuitive digital
journeys in its digital platforms. Our clients can now invest across asset classes be it digital gold, NPS, Mutual funds,
insurance, or sovereign bonds seamlessly through our mobile banking app – ‘open’. The digital channels continue to be
among the best in industry and contributed over `8,600 crores of MF gross sales, 102% growth over last year. We also
launched co-origination of MF investments through SIP along with saving bank account opening for our customers, which
has been well accepted by the salaried customers of the Bank, who find the ability to start an SIP very useful in their wealth
management journey.
In fiscal 2025, Bank also launched a digital journey which provides our customers the option to open demat and trading
accounts simultaneously along with opening of savings account. This has been well accepted by our customers, by simplifying
the onboarding experience for them. In Q4 FY25, we opened more than 1 lakh accounts through this bundled proposition.
During the year, the core wealth management backend system was upgraded to handle much larger scale of transactions and
we continue to invest in making the platform best in class.
251
Statutory reports
Affluent Banking
The ‘Burgundy’ offering for our HNI customers has been built by the Bank with curated features and offering for the needs
of such customers, across banking, investment and insurance products. These services are catered to by best-in-class talent
consisting of 550+ Relationship Managers, 475+ Premium Service Managers and 100+ Wealth Specialists spread across
more than 350 branches in India. This has enabled the Bank to take the services to customers beyond the major cities and,
into the tier 2 and tier 3 cities where the wealth management landscape is experiencing a notable transformation. The
NRI segment is seen as a key segment by the Bank in furthering its premiumisation agenda, and accordingly offers its NRI
customers products and service journeys through remote channels. In addition to banking products, the Bank caters to
NRI clients to enhance their wealth creation journey through investment options in India and full suite of product offering
through our digital platforms. The NRI segment is serviced through more than 450+ dedicated NRI RMs in branches as well
as 300+ virtual RMs.
The Bank launched “The Burgundy Promise” with an aim to provide a truly enhanced, distinctive, and Industry-first servicing
experience to our premium segment customers. Through this unique proposition which is based on three key pillars- defining
commitment, measuring performance and transparent communication; the Bank has committed to provide quick resolution
on selected services within a defined TAT of 6 working hours, along with a real time tracking mechanism via the digital
channels.
During the year, the Bank applied and received the license as a distributor of capital market products and services at its
IFSC Banking Unit (Gift City). The Bank is working towards building an equally strong wealth proposition through Gift
City to service the needs of Non-Resident Indian (NRI) investors looking to invest in India, and Resident Indians exploring
geographic and currency diversification in their portfolio.
Private Banking
Burgundy Private, the private banking franchise of the Bank catering to the UHNI segment, continues to grow strongly since
its launch 5 years back. In fiscal 2025, the Bank expanded the Burgundy Private program to 15 additional tier-2 cities, as part
of the strategy to harness the growing number of UHNIs and their wealth in these markets. With customer assets under
management of more `2 trillion across 13,000+ families including 35 of the Forbes 100 richest Indians and presence across
42 cities, the business continues to scale heights, capitalising on the well-established operational synergy with key business
units within the Bank under the ‘One Axis’ initiatives. During the year, there was a 4-fold increase in acquisitions through
the ‘One Axis’ initiative.
‘Burgundy Private Experiences’ launched last year made further progress with more than 15 curated events across various
genres such as musical, arts, sports, and investment. These events helped Burgundy Private clients get together to network
with like-minded patrons. Burgundy Private Experiences has now built an identity of its own and our clients look forward to
such events, which is helping us enhance client engagement through a different lens.
‘Investment Perspective’, an initiative to empower Burgundy customers with knowledge and information on the Global and
Indian equity & fixed income markets from the senior most Fund Manager’s in the industry continued to receive excellent
feedback from all customers. This was also extended to NRI customers across multiple cities as part of the home-coming
campaign.
Burgundy Private Partners are at the centre of ensuring, our clients “Experience the Power of One”. The people strength in our
private banking arm has grown to more than 250 vintaged Burgundy Private Partners with an average working experience of
over 17 years. They are ably supported by a well-trained team of more than 125 Service Partners to ensure superior service
delivery. We have also strengthened the team with dedicated Investment Counsellors and Insurance Specialists, who are
certified and trained for the purpose.
Burgundy Private franchise has been consistently pursuing excellence and has been dedicated to enhancing service delivery
in Private Banking, customer centricity at the centre. The institution’s relentless endeavour to provide the best services to
the customers and their families has continued to garner international recognition, with the Bank earning top honours such
as ‘India’s Best for Next-Gen’ at the Euromoney Global Private Banking Awards 2025 and ’Best Digital Innovator of the Year
award at the Global Private Banker WealthTech Awards 2025.
252 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
The Bank has successfully established a strong brand identity for Burgundy Private, defined by credibility and lasting
recognition through strategic partnerships. Reinforcing this commitment, Burgundy Private extended its collaboration with
Hurun India by launching the 4th super edition of ‘Burgundy Private Hurun India 500 Most Valuable Companies’, in February
2025. This edition highlighted the leadership of India’s top companies, including key players from the new economy.
Priority Sector Lending
Priority Sector Lending (PSL) is a regulatory mandate designed to ensure that banks direct a specified portion of their lending
to underserved yet creditworthy sectors of the economy. These sectors, which include agriculture, micro, small, and medium
enterprises (MSMEs), affordable housing, education, and renewable energy, are critical for inclusive economic growth. By
channelling credit to these areas, PSL promotes financial inclusion and addresses gaps in credit access, enabling balanced
development across rural and urban India.
In fiscal 2025, the Bank has successfully achieved its overall PSL targets, demonstrating a robust internal framework for
meeting regulatory requirements. With a clear vision to become self-sufficient in agriculture credit in the coming years, the
Bank is implementing targeted initiatives in rural and semi-urban markets through its Bharat Bank strategy. This strategic
focus not only ensures compliance with PSL mandates but also positions the Bank as a key driver of financial inclusion in
underserved regions.
The Bank is actively strengthening its product capabilities and distribution network to enhance credit flow to the agriculture
ecosystem. Its offerings include crop loans, such as those under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme, investment credit for farm
infrastructure, and loans for farm mechanization. These products are tailored to meet the needs of farmers and support the
Bank’s compliance with sub-category PSL targets for agriculture and farmer finance. By addressing the specific credit needs of
the agricultural sector, the Bank is fostering sustainable rural development.
Under the Bharat Bank strategy, the Bank is expanding its presence in rural and semi-urban markets to drive higher
credit growth. This involves augmenting distribution channels and product offerings to cater to the unique demands
of these regions. By financing not only farmers but also food and agri-processors, rural MSMEs, and corporate supply
chain participants, the Bank is effectively supporting the entire rural ecosystem. This holistic approach strengthens the
rural economy and aligns with the Bank’s commitment to inclusive growth. In addition to agriculture, the Bank has made
significant strides in enterprise lending, particularly to rural MSMEs and participants in the agri-value chain. Both its retail
and commercial banking segments maintain a focused approach to MSME lending, which is a critical component of PSL. By
delivering higher credit to these enterprises, the Bank is empowering small businesses and contributing to job creation and
economic resilience in rural and semi-urban areas.
Finance to NBFCs for onwards lending to various priority sector end borrowers also assisted the bank delivery of credit to needy
section of society and its aims to bolster i key partnership across BFSI domain to further increase the coverage in under penetrated
region. Partnership arrangements under Co-lending with many large NBFCs/MFIs further supports the growth in organic PSL
advance. Additionally, the Bank is actively pursuing other partnership arrangements as well as securitisation to increase credit flow
in priority sector to increase the Bank’s PSL advances specially in food and agriculture sector.
During the year, the Bank continued its focus on augmenting the small ticket size loans, crop loans to small and marginal
farmers, and microfinance business targeted at women borrowers from low-income households. The Bank also enhanced its
digital lending channels to facilitate quicker turnaround time for sanction and disbursement of loans to MSME borrowers.
The Bank’s PSL achievement during fiscal 2025 is ~48.5% as compared to the stipulated target of 40% of Adjusted Net
Bank Credit. The Bank through organic book and purchase of PSL certificates (PSLC) achieved the overall PSL target and
sub sector targets of Lending to Agriculture, Lending to Small & Marginal Farmers, Lending to Weaker sections, Lending to
Non- Corporate Farmers & Lending to Micro Enterprises. During the fiscal 2025, the Bank purchased PSLCs of an aggregate
amount of `72,454 crores at a cost of `1,484 crores (excluding taxes) and sold PSLCs of an aggregate amount of `67,000
crores and earned income of `197 crores.
Digital Banking
Digital Banking is a key strategic initiative and an area of distinctiveness for the Bank. The Bank was among the first to
launch an independent “fully Digital Bank” within the Bank as part of Axis 2.0 strategy. In the last six years, the Bank has
made substantial investments in Digital to build inhouse proprietary, distinctive digital native capabilities and deliver end to
end digital journeys and products, towards becoming a Digital Consumer lending powerhouse.
253
Statutory reports
Today, the Bank has dedicated people across departments focused on furthering the digital agenda. The Bank has a inhouse
full stack engineering team, and today a large number of the Bank’s digital products are built inhouse. Further, the Bank has
a large digital product and marketing team and a design team. The Bank has invested in best-in-class platforms across the
DevSecOps pipeline, Cloud infrastructure as well as developed its own platforms for design (Sub-zero and Accord).
The Bank rebranded Axis 2.0 as “Open by Axis Bank”, as it upgraded and redesigned the journeys and its mobile app to
deliver seamless and personalized end to end customer experiences. The “Open by Axis Bank” mobile banking app is now
rated 4.7 on the Google Playstore and 4.8 on the Apple app store. The Bank’s mobile banking app is rated as the world’s
highest rated mobile banking app on the Google Playstore with over 3 million reviews with ~15 million monthly active users.
The Bank today has a large suite of over 30 digital products live as part of “Open” – across assets, liabilities, fee income
products. The Bank has built fully digital onboarding journeys for Savings account, Salary account, Current account and Term
deposits. Similarly on the assets side, the Bank caters to both unsecured and secured asset journeys across Personal loans,
Business loans, Auto-loans, Gold loans, Home loan journeys, etc. The Bank also upgraded its end-to-end digital journeys for
Credit Card customer onboarding, cross-sell/up-sell as well as servicing.
In fiscal 2025, the Bank added several new products/customer propositions in addition to continued investments in existing
products. Some of these included My Money – a personal finance manager, fixed deposit using UPI, One-view – multi-bank
account aggregator.
As a result of these, the Bank today is at the forefront of providing cutting edge digital solutions to its customers with
significant growth in metrics across digital adoption, usage, transactions, servicing and sales. “Open” by Axis Bank currently
contributes ~6% to the bank’s overall business led by 47% Y-o-Y growth in deposits and 15% Y-o-Y growth in loans during
the year.
On Digital lending, the Bank has made substantial progress towards becoming a “Digital Consumer lending powerhouse”.
During the year, the Bank has made strides in enhancing capabilities critical to this business. The Bank is among the market
leaders in Account Aggregator ecosystem – a capability critical for underwriting new-to-bank customers in lending.
The Bank has built best in class personalization capabilities towards its objective of becoming the leading customer centric
bank. The ‘Open’ app offers over 10,000 personalised nudges across multiple features. This has been augmented by the
“Just for you” section on the app dashboard. The Bank launched a benefits dashboard to enhance transparency on rewards,
benefits and fees on Credit cards.
The Bank has also made strong progress in ‘Project Neo’, that the Bank had embarked on its transformational journey to be
India’s #1 digital Wholesale Bank. Under Project Neo, the integrated journeys across wholesale products and services being
experienced by the customers are based on how a customer views their business as opposed to a product led approach.
The Bank continues to invest in technology stack to ensure that it leverages the latest technologies, addressing for system
resiliency, scalability and agile enhancements.
“Neo for Business” – the Bank’s MSME focused platform that caters to banking and beyond banking services has seen
over 1.8 lakh customer registrations. The Bank’s Corporate Developer Portal now includes over 135 Open Banking API’s
as part of its wide transaction banking portfolio offerings. Neo for Corporates, the path breaking new age digital banking
platform which encompasses a fully cloud based solution has also enabled the Bank to hyperscale products while offering a
single Integrated Digital Platform across Payments, Trade, Forex, etc. Axis Neo Connect, the Bank’s industry first plug and
play solution for seamless ERP integration to wide domain of banking API services continues to see strong uptake across
customer segments.
Wholesale Banking and products
The Bank stands as a leading and all-encompassing Wholesale Banking franchise in the country, addressing every banking
need of the Corporates. We are building on our strong foundation with distinct, innovative strategies that differentiate us in
a competitive landscape and set the stage for next-year growth.
Throughout the fiscal year 2025, our focus remained on fostering deeper client relationships and delivering comprehensive
banking solutions. By leveraging our ‘One Axis’ approach across different business segments and subsidiaries, we successfully
encompassed the entire corporate value chain.
254 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
The Wholesale Coverage Group offers a wide array of products and services such as cash credit facilities, demand and short-
term loans, project finance, export credit, trade services, forex and derivative solutions, payment and cash management
systems, tax payments, salary accounts, trust services, commercial and credit cards, and much more. Backed by a dedicated
Wholesale Banking Products team, we provide customized solutions to meet the diverse financing needs of our clients.
The Bank’s Wholesale Coverage serves diverse customer segments ranging from SMEs, Start-ups, Large and mid-corporates,
MNCs, Financial institutions and intermediaries, PSUs and Government departments through its sharpened coverage
structure, as follows:
• Mid-Corporates & Medium Enterprises Group (MEG): Covering all corporate clients with turnover between `100
crores and `1,500 crores;
• Large Corporates: Covering all corporate clients with turnover greater than `1,500 crores;
• Focused Segmental Coverage: Covering PSUs, Government-owned entities, Multi-national companies, Start-ups, Real
Economy corporates and Financial institutions.
Wholesale Banking Coverage Group
The Bank has solidified its position as the preferred transaction bank, excelling in Current Accounts, Cash Management,
Trade & Supply Chain Finance, Capital Markets, and Custody services, resulting in increased market share over the years.
The Bank recognizes the dynamic and evolving needs of start-ups and the significance of offering tailored financial
solutions. We are proud to maintain strong relationships with 70% of unicorns and over 40% of Series A and above
funded start-ups across the country. The Bank has notably collaborated in areas such as cash management and core banking
solutions, structured Escrow services, and API customization, leading to a substantial increase in transactions per second
(TPS) and round-the-clock, high-volume settlements 365 days a year. These enhancements equip new-age players with a
diverse range of capabilities. We continue to drive the future of digital banking through a comprehensive suite of banking
NEO APIs, which are being leveraged by fintech’s and E-commerce players for bill collections, payments, trade, and more.
As a market leader in domestic payment gateway services, Axis Bank is expanding its capabilities by enabling the cross-border
payment and collections space through PACB arrangement.
In our ongoing commitment to fostering the start-up ecosystem, we have introduced the Axis Start-Up Card, specifically
designed to support entrepreneurs. These cards facilitate seamless travel, business expenses, and vendor payments, providing
enhanced flexibility and financial control within the start-up ecosystem.
The Bank is a trusted partner to start-ups throughout their growth journey, with majority of tech founders choosing Axis Bank
for their public listing in fiscal 2025.
The Bank’s E-Commerce Centre of Excellence (ECOM COE) is committed to scaling its presence in this sector, with an
ambitious goal to double business growth over the next three years.
The Real Economy Group (REG), a specialized segment within the Wholesale Coverage Group, targets infrastructure and real
estate clients. Within just two years, REG has doubled its business and contributes nearly 50% to overall syndication volumes,
securing Axis’s position as the top bookrunner for local currency loans in India for the second consecutive year.
With a strong government focus on sustainable infrastructure, especially clean energy, REG has significantly supported India’s
clean energy goals, contributing nearly 50% of the bank’s financing to green sectors, covering major players like Renew Power,
Actis, Macquarie, and Brookfield.
Beyond asset build-up, REG is dedicated to enhancing customer engagement through the One Axis franchise. It has synergized
with Axis Capital and Axis Trustee, aligning with the Govt and Capital market regulator’s push for Alternative & Hybrid vehicles
such as Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs).
MEG is expanding “NEO for Business” suite to deliver seamless onboarding and credit processing with AI-driven analytics
and self-service tools, streamlining operations and personalizing solutions for medium enterprises. Supported by additional
branches, deeper regional ties and strategic collaborations with relevant ecosystem, our extensive network provides integrated
financial solutions & propels growth.
255
Statutory reports
The Bank secured India’s first Blue loan, a USD 500 million deal from the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The funds
will finance or refinance eligible Green projects and Blue assets, supporting environmental sustainability and restoring oceanic
and freshwater resources.
The Bank also secured a landmark UTI Mutual Fund deal through a competitive RFP process, doubling Axis Bank’s Assets
Under Custody (AUC) from ~`5 lakh crore to `10 lakh crore. This significantly enhances our portfolio and establishes us as a
formidable competitor in custodial services, paving the way for further institutional custody business.
The WBCG organized a Defence Conclave titled “Atmanirbhar Defence – Empowering the Defence Ecosystem,” in
collaboration with IDeX, KPMG, and IVCA. This event united government officials, industry leaders, foreign OEMs, venture
capitalists, MSMEs, and startups, emphasizing collaboration and self-reliance. Axis Bank supports India’s self-reliance in
defence manufacturing and innovation, reflecting our “Har raah dil se open” theme.
WBCG integrated with the Government of India’s “Upyog“ Platform for Himachal Pradesh, unifying 60 local bodies for
citizen services. Axis Bank developed 40+ customized products for government departments, including Upyog and ATREDS.
Our first-mover advantage in QR-based tax collections and drone-based disaster management highlights our commitment
to innovation and customer-centricity.
The Information Technology & Global Capability Center - COE, aims to enhance bank-wide penetration in the IT & GCC
universe through One Axis synergies and innovative products. With over 1,000 MNCs banking with us and a 32% CAGR, we
offer customized offerings and improved features to meet varied needs. We are committed to doubling our liabilities book
in 5 years through execution excellence, holistic account planning, and focus on sectors with strong MNC presence, such as
IT & GCC, and Shipping & Logistics.
Looking forward, we are poised to harness our digital transformation, strengthen customer engagement, and capitalize on
strategic partnerships to sustain growth.
Supplementing the India’s vibrant growth story, Government of India has allocated a staggering over `11 lakh crore towards
capital expenditure in the fiscal 2026 budget. This significant investment underscores India’s commitment to doubling down
on Infrastructure development, setting the stage for a transformative year ahead. Private sector giants are also stepping up,
with `3.5 trillion in private capex earmarked for key sectors such as infrastructure, renewables, ports, roads, and commercial
real estate. This synergy between public and private investments is poised to drive unprecedented growth and modernization
across the country and the Bank is continuously building its capabilities & prepared to capture this demand which aligns with
our focus on strong asset growth (Infra, Greenfield projects, EV, REIT & INVITs, Renewables, Road, Manufacturing etc) Fees,
deposits, CASA etc.
Adding to this momentum is Government’s Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme that is designed to boost incremental
production and sales by offering financial incentives to companies that manufacture specific products in India. As a bank,
we see immense potential in this initiative and intend to support our clients in expanding their manufacturing capabilities &
impetus to start ups, thereby driving further growth and enhancing our portfolio.
Our strategic focus includes driving overall efficiency, productivity & profitability and further deepening our market
penetration/ share of wallet. As we navigate this dynamic landscape, our commitment to sustainable growth remains
unwavering.
Commercial Banking Coverage Group (CBG)
CBG is a critical and vital segment of the Bank, contributing significantly to both business growth and profitability. CBG
caters to the evolving needs of MSMEs across the entire customer value chain - spanning Loans, Trade/Forex, Liabilities,
and Fee-based products and provides tailored banking solutions for both business owners and their employees, ensuring
seamless financial support at every stage of their journey.
The MSME sector has consistently demonstrated its resilience and remains the backbone of the Indian economy. Recognizing
this, CBG is committed to serving their diverse financial needs through innovative solutions, a customer-centric approach,
and strategic partnerships. CBG strives to be a trusted partner, enabling MSMEs to scale and succeed. As MSMEs progress
in their journey, CBG aims to be their trusted financial partner, providing comprehensive banking solutions that fuel their
growth and contribute to the nation’s economic prosperity.
256 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
CBG has a wide geographical presence with 155 dedicated MSME centres, aligned to the extensive branch network of the
Bank. The book of CBG is `1.19 lakh crores as on 31 March, 2025. It is a PSL engine of the Bank, generating stable and high
quality PSL for the Bank.
Distinctiveness through Innovation:
We are enhancing our digital platforms—expanding the capabilities of our “NEO for Business” suite—to deliver seamless,
rapid onboarding and credit processing. By integrating AI-driven analytics and intuitive self-service tools, we are not only
streamlining operations but also personalizing solutions to meet the nuanced needs of medium enterprises.
Strategic Partnerships & Geographic Penetration:
Our extensive network, now strengthened by new branch expansions and deeper regional ties, coupled with strategic
collaborations (notably with the Mid Corporate segment), is creating an ecosystem that delivers integrated financial solutions
and opens new avenues for growth.
Wholesale Banking Products
The Bank has strengthened its proposition as a Transaction Bank of choice across Current Account, Cash Management, Trade
& Supply Chain Finance, Capital Markets and Custody and gained market share. The Bank’s focus has been on providing
differentiated, integrated product propositions to our clients across corporate, commercial banking, financial institutions,
and government segment.
As part of Wholesale Banking initiative, “NEO by Axis Bank” reflects the Bank’s commitment to building a leading digital
Transaction Bank. This initiative encompasses a broad spectrum of best-in-class digital offerings, including APIs, Corporate
Internet Banking, Host to Host integration, and strategic partnerships. The Bank has been on this journey for over 3 years,
and its transaction banking thought leadership and consequent deep solutioning continued to see widespread adoption at
an increasing pace, demonstrating a strong product-market fit.
The Bank has built solutions to cater to the full range of business customers based on their digital maturity. The Bank has not
only built a wide suite of APIs for corporates to integrate their ERP solution easily to the Bank, it also created the corporate
developer portal for digitally savvy customers to integrate in a Do-It-Yourself fashion with the Bank.
Cash Management
The Bank offers comprehensive cash management solutions across all segments. The Bank has implemented new payment
hub and increased the NEFT transaction processing speed by 2x during peak hours. The Bank continues its leadership
position in processing the highest number of NEFT and IMPS transactions amongst all the banks. With an objective of easing
the client’s reconciliation activities, the Bank has invested in the account statement infrastructure by enabling customised
MT940, account statement and balance through API. This helps the customers to implement a STP capture of data in their
ERP, automating their recon.
The Bank is also authorised for collection of Direct Taxes, GST and Custom Duty. For GST collections, Bank has activated
the payment gateway for collection through cards and UPI.
The Bank is progressively improving on its leadership position in Bharat Connect (earlier known as BBPS) ecosystem and has
been amongst the first movers to launch “Prepaid Electricity Meter” and NPS (Axis is a Sole BOU) category in BBPS. The
Bank continues its leadership position in terms of number of biller onboarding and highest number of transactions amongst
private banks & has been leading the way for new category of billings like B2B and piloting new initiatives with NPCI, billers
& fintech partners.
Commercial Cards
Our Commercial Card business continued to drive innovation, offering tailored payment solutions that enhance cash
flow management, streamline expenses, and improve working capital efficiency for businesses. With a strong focus on
digitization, we expanded our suite of offerings, including launch of exclusive card for sole proprietors, backed by enhanced
24/7 phone banking support and an end-to-end digital onboarding journey. By integrating cutting edge technology and
strategic partnerships, we reinforced our leadership in B2B & statutory payments, positioning commercial card as a critical
enabler in business transactions.
257
Statutory reports
Trade and Supply Chain Finance
The Bank offers a comprehensive suite of Trade and Supply Chain Finance products and solutions – for both domestic as
well as international trade. These solutions are offered via our various channels such as our branch network and various
digital channels with capabilities of integration with client systems. The Bank has a dedicated team of product specialists
– both in sales, product and operations who support clients for their various requirements such as exports, imports, bank
guarantees, working capital optimisation and liquidity & risk management solutions.
• International Trade solutioning
The Bank continues to provide unique solutions to Indian exporters, exporting especially to geographies with lesser
than acceptable country rating, by confirming Letter of Credit (LCs) through enhanced structured partnerships with
multilaterals and international banks. The Bank commercialised solutions for Auto and Oil exporter clients through
robust partnership solutions. The Bank also enhanced trade capabilities at its Gift City branch by launching new
products to facilitate international trade. In order to simplify regulatory procedures, the Bank provided solutions to
Export clients to merge their ERP data to reconcile with Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS) data.
• Initiatives on Structured Trade:
The Bank has forayed into Structured Trade Finance during the year and a specialised team has been put in place to
cater to the requirements of corporates on this front. During the year the bank executed deals pertaining Back-to-Back
LCs and a structured Finance deal in the energy sector from its Dubai Branch. Structured trade as a business is a key
focus area for the bank and is poised for growth.
Additionally, the Bank is expanding the integrated supply chain solutions across the client’s life cycle through multiple
products that cater to specific segments supply chain requirements.
Current Account
The Bank’s focus on becoming the transaction bank of choice resulted in a steady growth in the current account balances.
Current Account Product has also been focusing on service excellence for client stickiness and retention through better
penetration into Self-service channels through branch of the future initiative (BOTF), building customer journeys across
Re-KYC & other service requests.
During the year, the Bank also expanded customised banking proposition sectors like FMCG, Real estate, Pharma &
Healthcare, Tourism & hospitality, IT & GCC, E-commerce, Education, Farmers producer organisation, while continuing the
focus on digital current account proposition for merchants through co-origination of current account along with other digital
offerings.
Treasury & Markets
The Bank’s Treasury & Markets function comprises of Asset Liability Management (ALM), Forex Trading group (including
Currency Derivatives & Bullion), Interest Rate Trading (IRT) (including Rupee Derivatives) & Primary Dealership, Non SLR
Trading (including Equity), Debt Capital Markets – DCM (Domestic DCM & International DCM), Treasury Sales, Loan
Syndication, and Treasury Technology & Governance team.
The Bank’s ALM group manages the regulatory requirements of Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR), Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
and Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NFSR). The group also manages the liquidity, interest rate
and currency risks in the Bank’s portfolio, under the guidance of the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) of the Bank.
The Bank’s Forex Trading Group is a major participant in the foreign exchange and derivatives market and undertakes
proprietary trading and market making in forex and derivatives products.
The Interest Rate Trading (IRT) desk plays an important role of market making and trading in G-Sec, OIS & other interest
rate products. The Bank is primary dealer of Government securities. PD desk ensures mandated bidding commitments,
success ratio & turnover ratio for T-bill auctions/ G Sec are achieved for the year. The Corporate Bond & Equity Trading desk
undertakes primary and secondary market investments in corporate bonds, commercial papers, certificate of deposits, and
equity instruments.
258 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
The Bank remains a dominant player in the Debt Capital Market (DCM) segment. The Bank regained its numero uno position
for calendar year 2024 (as per Bloomberg league table) after ranked 3rd in the calendar year 2023. The Bank maintained
its leadership position for 16 consecutive years as the number one arranger until calendar year 2022. The Bank also has a
growing International Debt Capital Markets franchise with mandates from leading corporate issuers for their international
bond issuances. The desk has demonstrated a track record of arranging several ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance)
compliant issuances.
Treasury Sales, a part of the Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) industry along with Coverage provides bespoke
treasury solutions including customised risk management and hedging solutions to our diverse clients. The team offers a
spectrum of forex and derivatives products, and its strengths lie in complex and structured risk management solutions, as
well as hedging advisory and execution skills. A comprehensive digital proposition “Neo for Markets” is offered to clients and
is ranked amongst the leading Treasury Solutions provider in the country.
The Bank’s Loan Syndication desk is responsible for arranging loan facilities for corporate clients on underwriting/arranger/
best-efforts basis while also undertaking secondary sale and purchase of loans. The desk, being active in both domestic and
international loan markets, plays an integral role in balancing the risks and returns on the Bank’s corporate loan book.
The Treasury Technology & Governance (TTG) team oversees the Treasury Technology implementation and ensures
appropriate governance framework is put in place before new products are rolled out to customers/undertaken in Interbank
market.
During the year, the Bank successfully transitioned to Murex as the core and integrated state-of-art Treasury system for all
products other than Bullion as part of its technology upgrade.
Customer Obsession (SPARSH)
Sparsh, our Customer Obsession program, is a Bank-wide priority and a core area of distinctiveness for us, the tenets of which
are now ingrained across all our 5,800+ branches, every customer touchpoint, and amongst all our 1.04 lakh+ colleagues.
The journey toward customer obsession commenced at Axis Bank with an extensive outside-in effort, encompassing surveys
of over 12,000 customers, conducting over 1,000 employee discussions, and evaluating more than 50 global companies for
benchmarking purposes.
Sparsh 2.0: Enhancing Customer Satisfaction and Business Outcomes
Sparsh 2.0 aims to link Sparsh initiatives to enhanced customer satisfaction, leading to improved NPS and better business
outcomes. The key focus areas of Sparsh 2.0 include:
• Regional Structure: The department was restructured to bring a regional focus, with nine regions covering Branch
Banking, Wholesale Banking, and Retail Assets, along with subsidiaries, AVC, and Axis Phone. Sparsh Labs were also
introduced to conduct innovative, low-cost, high-impact experiments to continuously collect customer feedback.
• Listening with Intent: A pan-organization culture of listening to customers was fostered, from the Managing Director
to product teams and frontline staff.
• Focus on Input Metrics: Efforts were made to reduce Turnaround Time (TAT) and improve First Time Resolution (FTR).
• Agile Customer Service: Real-time close looping of Net Promoter Score (NPS) detractors (customers who vote
negatively towards bank service) and complaints was implemented to ensure agile customer service.
• WOW Moments: Low-cost, high-impact interventions were implemented to delight customers distinctively.
• Business Outcomes: Key input metrics were identified to drive positive business results.
• Customer Loyalty: Efforts were made to increase the number of products per customer (PPC) by becoming the
customers’ primary bank.
• Customer Advocacy: Expansion in reach and business was driven by customer referrals, fostering a culture of customer
advocacy.
259
Statutory reports
The Bank has established four fundamental building blocks of customer obsession to realize its vision and strategy:
• Craft delight journeys: Embedding delight/WOW moments in customer journeys to make it distinctive.
• Embed Sparsh values in every employee: Deepen the cultural transformation to ensure customer delight is a fully
embedded DNA through behaviors and initiatives for all employee including off-role.
• Measure and act on Customer Feedback: Net promoter score to be aligned with business outcome, churn rate, being
the primary Bank to our customers.
• Build institutional capabilities: Build & facilitate institution wide capabilities and frameworks like, Axis Promise, tech
capabilities - Adi, Kaleidoscope to ease operations and deliver delightful experiences.
Business Intelligence Unit
The Business Intelligence Unit (BIU) is a high impact team with a mandate to work with different businesses across the Bank
to make better decisions and drive value using data and data products.
The team’s impact spans across multiple areas including marketing, risk management, business strategy, collections and fraud
management across multiple businesses including retail lending, credit cards, retail deposits, wholesale banking products,
commercial banking group, operations, financial crime intelligence, compliance etc.
There are over 740 highly capable members in the team in various techno-functional roles with expertise in data engineering,
data science, Gen AI and strategic analysis. Over the last 24 months, the Bank has made significant investment in rewiring the
latent operating model with a focus on skill mapping including creation of new-age role archetypes (for e.g., ML Engineers),
granular individual skill mapping, well defined skill assessment platform and personalised skill development.
The Bank’s focus on Generative Artificial Intelligence (Gen AI) & Machine Learning (ML) along with traditional analytics has
helped internal stakeholders to make data driven business decisions. The Bank continues to invest heavily in new age data
science and engineering platforms – Big Data Lake, Cloud data platform, Micro Services-based architecture, and Analytical
Work Bench. Cloud migration has been a big focus over last 24 months with multiple uses migrated to hybrid loud strategy
adopted by the Bank.
The Bank has built a modern data stack, with 2,000+ live use cases. It is a petabyte scale lakehouse with terrabytes of data
ingested the every day leveraging enterprise class tools to drive scalability and flexibility for the business. On data governance
and quality, the Bank has leveraged MDM (master data management) to create a cutting-edge data quality outcomes. MDM
is a customer master data for managing customer date elements from multiple core systems in one place. This has placed
the Bank with a great starting point to leverage quality data and drive changes required to comply to new DPDPA act.
During the year, the BIU team focused on 3 key distinctive initiatives – Optimisation analytics, ML Engineering and
Generative. Optimisation analytics has allowed the Bank to create 10,000+ simulations factoring in realistic constraints to
arrive at data backed optimal outcome for the Bank. Optimisation analytics is being used across multiple areas including
pricing strategies, marketing cost optimisation, etc. The Bank also uses optimisation analytics to ensure the loan offer made
to customer is optimal in terms of pricing and limits offered. The Bank has embarked on journey for creating cutting edge ML
engineering capabilities which has enabled the Bank to reduce its model development lifecycle by 25%. On Generative AI,
the Bank has launched multiple use cases focused on enabling large scale automation and improving employee productivity.
Information Technology and Cyber Security
The Information Technology (IT) department vision aligns with the Bank strategy to be a leading tech and digital bank,
committed to technological excellence and innovation with a secure, resilient, efficient banking system. The Bank aspires to
develop and maintain advanced digital and data capabilities, enhance operational efficiency through innovative solutions,
empower customers and employees through reimagined journeys, ensure the highest standards of security and reliability
across IT operations, and drive cost efficiency and maximize return on investments.
The IT department has been focusing heavily on expanding its technology capabilities with a talented team of 2,000+
members having strong domain expertise. Furthermore, IT is committed to innovation, resiliency, and enhancing customer
experience with focusing on more than 35 key initiatives including lending transformation, GenAI, personalization, digital
payments, and integration of cloud ecosystem.
260 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
The Bank is continuously enhancing its Mobile Banking platform, now featuring more than 250 functionalities. The Bank
has achieved remarkable ratings of 4.8 on the iOS App Store based on 349K reviews and 4.7 on the Google Play Store
from 3 million+ reviews. The improved capabilities of the Bank’s channels have notably increased the volume of service
requests managed at branches, resulting in a growth of monthly active users to over 15 million. Currently, the Mobile
Banking application boasts 33.7 million registered users. The Bank is committed to sustaining its top-tier status and excellent
ratings on both the iOS App Store and Google Play Store throughout the fiscal 2026.
The Bank has enhanced its support capabilities by providing services in more than ten languages. Furthermore, the Bank has
32 digital services on Branch of the Future (BOTF) channel with new features such as change in EMI cycle, change in EMI
repayment account, and ability to download loan account statement. The Bank’s WhatsApp banking channel exceeded 30
million customers, conducted 100+ campaigns and 40 million+ communications, and added FD booking and Loan services
as its latest offerings.
The Bank maintained a strong presence in the UPI sector, with a total VPA base of 1,674 million and facilitating around
37.6 million merchant transactions daily via the UPI platform. The Bank has achieved the top position in the UPI Payer PSP
market, commanding a market share of ~33%. Furthermore, the Bank has launched an UPI-enabled ATM cash withdrawal
and deposit feature, in addition to existing offerings such as RuPay Credit Card on UPI, digital currency interoperability
through UPI, and UPI support for international payments. The Bank also has one of the lowest UPI technical decline levels
among the peer banks.
The Bank initiated the integration of GenAI into its operations by launching Axis Deep Intelligence (ADI), an internal chatbot
powered by GenAI. ADI is leveraged over 5,800 branches throughout India and supports more than 104,000 employees. The
Bank is harnessing emerging technologies such as AI/ML, automation, and data analytics to enhance customer experience,
optimize operational efficiency, and improve staff productivity by building AI assists. Furthermore, the Bank has empowered
different departments with Co-pilot capabilities including 4,500+ bots across 1,850+ automated processes.
The Bank has built a secure and hybrid API platform using an API Gateway and Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) for external
partners and internal users. The Bank has developed a cloud-based integration platform to manage API products for partners,
such as account opening and co-lending services. Furthermore, the Bank has established API guardrails to classify APIs into
different levels of criticality (High, Medium, Low) with better security controls and API governance. The Bank has launched
API-driven products with partners like Flipkart, Google, and Airtel, addressing transactional banking, trade, credit card
services, foreign exchange, and payment solutions. The API usage has surged, with a 50% increase in daily requests, over
840 partner APIs, 850+ partner onboardings, and 2,000+ internal APIs. The API developer portal offers access to 460+ APIs
for over 5,000 developers, enhancing accessibility.
The Bank has maintained a Cloud-first and Cloud-native approach, creating three enterprise-grade landing zones and deployed
over 150 applications on the Cloud. The Bank became the first Indian bank to receive ISO certification for AWS and Azure
cloud security. With a focus on hyper-automation, the Bank utilised Infra-as-a-Code and enhanced application observability
with Cloud-based SRE practices. The Bank’s cloud infrastructure achieved high maturity in governance, resilience, data
recovery, security, monitoring, and incident response. Additionally, the Bank secured cloud privacy certification and
implemented robust security protocols, including Zero Trust Controls.
The Bank operates centralized IT infrastructure from two primary data centers across different seismic zones (Mumbai and
Bengaluru) and a near DR data center (Bengaluru). These centers use wide area network connectivity and multiprotocol label
switching for application delivery to domestic and overseas branches. The data centers comply with the best benchmarking
standards, feature redundancy systems with multiple active power and cooling paths. The Bank has implemented data
privacy measures, including user access management, network security, secure configuration, BCP, DR, and database
security, ensuring seamless digital experiences for customers, employees, and partners.
The Bank led CBDC initiatives, becoming the first among peers to launch both Android and iOS apps, with over 0.65 million
registered customers and 6 million transactions. As the preferred RBI partner for the Government-led Programmable CBDC
initiative, the Bank collaborates with various ministries and organizations. The Bank aims to expand government collaboration
for CBDC projects and integrate with TPAP to boost adoption.
The Bank is dedicated to maintaining top-tier data security and privacy standards, continuously investing to enhance its
capabilities. It follows a comprehensive cyber security program with policies and standards based on industry best practices
261
Statutory reports
and regulatory guidelines. The Bank’s cyber security framework, aligned with NIST and ISO27001 standards, focuses on
key areas: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. It complies with multiple ISO standards, including ISO27001
Information Security Management System (ISMS), ISO27017 Cloud Security Standards, ISO27034 Business Application
Security Certification, and ISO27018 PII Data Security Standard Certification, as well as the Payment Card Industry Data
Security Standards (PCIDSS), showcasing its robust cyber security resilience.
The Bank operates a 24/7 Security Operations Centre and Cyber Security Operations System, with all digital products
monitored on the Dark Net/Deep Web. It boasts a BitSight Rating of 810 out of 900, indicating a strong internet-facing
security posture, surpassing 90% of banking and finance entities tracked by BitSight. Internally, the Bank employs a zero-
trust architecture, enhancing security technology and process controls.
To protect its information assets, the Bank has implemented various cyber security controls, including Zero-Trust Architecture
for secure remote access, micro-segmentation to reduce the cyber-attack surface, Advanced End-Point controls and Data
Leakage Prevention (DLP), secure-by-design practices like DevSecOps and security testing and rigorous vetting of SaaS and
PaaS providers for compliance and security.
Further, the Bank has implemented a robust Enterprise Security Governance Framework, e-mail security controls against
phishing, continuous security monitoring and threat intelligence, network security measures like WAF and DDoS Protection
and Cloud security measures supporting Cloud-First goals for enhancing its cyber security controls.
The Bank’s Information & Cyber Security governance framework operates at both strategic and executive levels to ensure
that controls are commensurate with applicable risks and threats. Here’s a detailed look at the committee oversight and
governance:
Strategic Level Oversight
Board of Directors: The Board is responsible for the oversight of the Bank’s cyber security strategy and risk management.
They ensure that the cyber security measures align with the Bank’s overall business objectives and regulatory requirements.
Risk Management Committee: This committee focuses on identifying, assessing, and mitigating risks, including cyber security
risks. They review the effectiveness of the Bank’s risk management framework and ensure that appropriate measures are in
place to manage cyber threats.
Executive Level Oversight
Information Technology & Digital Strategy Committee: This committee oversees the Bank’s IT and digital strategies, ensuring
that cyber security is integrated into all digital initiatives. They monitor the implementation of cyber security policies and
standards, ensuring compliance with industry best practices and regulatory guidelines.
Information System Security Committee: This committee is responsible for the operational aspects of the Bank’s cyber
security program. They oversee the implementation of security controls, monitor cyber threats, and ensure that the Bank’s
information assets are protected. They also coordinate with various regulatory bodies to strengthen the Bank’s cyber
defence mechanisms.
By having a structured governance framework with clear oversight responsibilities, the Bank ensures that its cyber security
measures are robust, effective, and aligned with its overall business objectives. This comprehensive approach helps the Bank
maintain a strong security posture and protect its information assets from cyber threats.
Risk
The risk management objective of the Bank is to ensure that the Bank operates in a risk – sensitive manner within the
parameters of the Board approved Risk Appetite Statement and the concerns of Risk Department, while balancing the trade-
off between risk and return. In order to achieve this objective, the Bank has ensured at the outset the following enablers
• Robust risk governance from the top
• An independent risk management function
• Board approved risk appetite
• Focus on risk culture
262 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Risk Governance
The Board is the apex Governance body on all matters of risk management. The Board of Directors exercises its oversight
over risk management both directly and through its Committees, namely the Risk Management Committee, the Audit
Committee of the Board, the Special Committee on Monitoring Bank Frauds and the IT & Digital Strategy Committee.
While the Board reviews risk management matters on a quarterly basis, including approval of risk policies, risk profile, stress
testing, risk policies, key & emerging risks etc., the Risk Management Committee oversees these matters in greater detail and
depth and approves the Risk Appetite Statement of the Bank.
Executive Risk committees are constituted to look at specific areas of risk and are mandated by the Risk Management
Committee of the Bank. Till fiscal year 2025 these were: Credit Risk Management Committee (CRMC), Asset Liability
Management Committee (ALCO), Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC), Information Systems Security
Committee (ISSC), Central Outsourcing Committee (COC), BCP & Crisis Management Committee (BCPMC), Apex
Committee, Subsidiary Governance Committee (SGC) and Enterprise & Group Risk Management Committee (EGRMC). The
Risk Management Committee of the Bank exercises oversight on these committees through review of their minutes and a
review of the risk profile reviewed in these committees.
Independent risk management function
An independent risk management function offers assurance to the Board that risks are being taken and managed in line
with the overall risk appetite of the Bank and the risk management policies of the Bank approved by the Risk Management
Committee and the Board.
In order to ensure independence, the following enablers are in place:
• Risk function is headed by a Chief Risk Officer who is appointed by the Board of Directors and reports to the Risk
Management Committee with additional reporting to the MD & CEO of the Bank.
• The Chief Risk Officer does not have any business targets nor does this officer have any other role like operations,
technology etc.
• The Chief Risk Officer has direct access to the Risk Management Committee of the Board and meets the committee
one on one on a quarterly basis without any other officers of the Bank being present.
• The Risk function under the Chief Risk Officer is part of various decision making bodies. For example, Risk function is
a permanent invitee to all credit sanctioning committees in the wholesale banking space, Risk function convenes and
conducts meetings of executive risk committees etc.
• The Risk function is well staffed in terms of people and has independent access to data needed to support its working.
The Risk Department, while discharging its role, first lays down risk policies which are then approved by the Board of
Directors, and then monitors the risk profile of the Bank across various components of risk in line with these policies and
also informs and escalates matters of concern to the appropriate levels of management.
Risk Appetite
The overall risk appetite and philosophy of the Bank is approved by the Risk Management Committee of the Bank.
The Risk Appetite Statement and the framework thereof provides guidance to the management on the desired level of risk
for various types of risks in the long term and helps steer critical portfolio decisions.
The Risk Appetite is set at the Bank level and is cascaded into the business units for driving decisions at an operational level.
It is monitored by the Risk Department which reports on the adherence thereto to the senior management and also to the
Risk Management Committee.
Risk Culture
A robust operational risk and compliance culture is the cornerstone for risk management in any institution. In the Bank,
Risk Department along with Compliance Department has put in place an action plan to strengthen the risk and compliance
culture. This includes various initiatives such as -
263
Statutory reports
• Training and awareness programs
• Strengthening staff accountability framework
• Clarity on roles and responsibilities of the front line staff
• Tone from the top through communication from the MD & CEO
Risk Architecture
The risk architecture is composed, for every type of risk, of elements of -
• Governance with executive risk committee oversight
• Risk policies to provide guidance
• Tools for measuring risk level
• Monitoring of risk profile
• Reporting for actioning
A summary of these facets of the key risks is provided here:
Risk type Definition Approach to risk management
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a The goal of credit risk management is to maintain asset quality and
customer, borrower, issuer of securities that concentrations at individual exposures as well as at the portfolio level.
the Bank holds, or any other counterparty
Internal rating forms the core of the risk management process for
fails to meet its contractual obligations.
wholesale lending businesses with internal ratings determining the
Credit risk arises from all transactions that acceptability of risk, maximum exposure ceiling, sanctioning authority,
give rise to actual, contingent, or potential pricing decisions and review frequency. For the retail portfolio including
claims against any counterparty, customer, small businesses and small agriculture borrowers, the Bank uses different
borrower or obligor. product-specific scorecards. Credit models used for risk estimation
are assessed for their discriminatory power, calibration accuracy and
stability, independently by a validation team.
Both credit and market risk expertise are combined to manage risks
arising out of traded credit products such as bonds and market related
off-balance sheet transactions.
Market risk Market risk is the risk of losses in ‘on and The Bank adopts a comprehensive approach to market risk management
off-balance sheet’ positions arising from for its banking book as well as its trading book for both its domestic
the movements in market price as well as and overseas operations. The market risk management framework of the
the volatilities of those changes, which may Bank covers inputs regarding the extent of market risk exposures, the
impact the Bank’s earnings and capital. The performance of portfolios vis-à-vis the market risk limits and comparable
risk may pertain to interest rate related benchmarks which provide guidance to the business in optimizing
instruments (interest rate risk), equities the risk-adjusted rate of return of the Bank’s trading and investment
(equity price risk) and foreign exchange rate portfolio.
risk (currency risk). Market risk for the Bank
Market risk management is guided by clearly laid down policies,
emanates from its trading and investment
guidelines, processes and systems for the identification, measurement,
activities, which are undertaken both for the
monitoring and reporting of exposures against various risk limits set
customers and on a proprietary basis.
in accordance with the risk appetite of the Bank. Risk Department
independently monitors the Bank’s investment and trading portfolio in
terms of risk limits stipulated in the Market Risk Management Policy
and board approved Market Risk Appetite and reports deviations, if
any, to the appropriate authorities as laid down in the policy and in the
Risk Appetite Statement. The Bank utilises both statistical as well as
non-statistical measures for the market risk management of its trading
and investment portfolios. The statistical measures include Value at
Risk (VaR), stress tests, back tests and scenario analysis while position
limits, marked-to-market (MTM), stop-loss limits, trigger limits, gaps and
sensitivities (duration, PVBP, option greeks) are used as non-statistical
measures of market risk management.
264 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Risk type Definition Approach to risk management
The Bank follows a historical simulation approach to calculate Value at
Risk (VaR) with a 99% confidence level for a one-day holding period in
a time horizon of 250 days. VaR models for different portfolios are back
tested on an ongoing basis and the results are used to maintain and
improve the efficacy of the model. VaR measurements are supplemented
with a series of stress tests and sensitivity analyses as per a well laid out
stress testing framework.
Liquidity risk Liquidity is a bank’s capacity to fund increase The Asset Liability Management (ALM) Policy of the Bank stipulates a
in assets and meet both expected and broad framework for liquidity risk management to ensure that the Bank
unexpected cash and collateral obligations is in a position to meet its liquidity obligations as well as to withstand
at a reasonable cost and without incurring a period of liquidity stress from bank-level factors, market-wide factors
unacceptable losses. Liquidity risk is the or a combination of both. The ALM policy captures the liquidity risk
inability of a bank to meet such obligations appetite of the Bank and related governance structures as defined in
as they become due, without adversely the Risk Appetite Statement. The ALM policy is supplemented by other
affecting the Bank’s financial condition. liquidity policies relating to intraday liquidity, stress testing, contingency
funding plan and liquidity policies for each of the overseas branches.
The liquidity profile of the Bank is monitored for both domestic as well
as overseas operations on a static as well as on a dynamic basis by using
the gap analysis technique supplemented by monitoring of key liquidity
ratios and conduct of liquidity stress tests periodically. Periodical
liquidity positions and liquidity stress results are reviewed by the Bank’s
ALCO and the Risk Management Committee of the Board.
The Bank has integrated liquidity risk management guidelines issued
by RBI pursuant to the Basel III framework on liquidity standards in
its asset liability management framework. These include the intraday
liquidity management and the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). The Bank
maintains LCR/NSFR in accordance with the RBI guidelines and the
defined risk appetite of the Bank.
Operational Operational risks may emanate from Core operational risk
risk inadequate and/or missing controls in
The Bank has in place an Operational Risk Management (ORM) Policy
internal processes, people and systems or
to manage the operational risk in an effective, efficient and proactive
from external events or a combination of all
manner. The policy aims at assessing and measuring the magnitude of
the four.
risks, monitoring and mitigating them through a well-defined framework
Operational risk manifests in the form of - and governance structure.
• Core process risk The Bank has set up a comprehensive Operational Risk Measurement
System for documenting, assessing, and periodic monitoring of various
• Change management risk
risks and controls linked to various processes across all business lines.
• Outsourcing risk
Change management risk
• Continuity risk
All new products and processes, as well as changes in existing products
• Information & cyber security risk and processes are subjected to risk evaluation by the Operational Risk
team. The overall responsibility of new products is vested with the Risk
Department through the Bank’s Product Management Committee and
Change Management Committee.
Outsourcing risk
Outsourcing arrangements are examined and approved by the Bank’s
Outsourcing Committee after due recommendations from the
Operational Risk team.
265
Statutory reports
Risk type Definition Approach to risk management
Business continuity risk
The Business Continuity Planning Management Committee (BCPMC)
exercises oversight on the implementation of the approved Business
Continuity Plan (BCP) framework which has been put in place to ensure
continuity of service to its large customer base. The effectiveness of
the approved Business Continuity Plan (BCP) framework is tested for
all identified critical internal activities to ensure readiness to meet
various contingency scenarios. The learning from the BCP exercises are
used as inputs to further refine the framework. With effective Business
Continuity Plan in place, the Bank has effectively managed to run its
operations by adapting to various continuity/mitigation plans.
Information security risk
The Bank pursues a holistic Information and cyber security program with
a comprehensive Information Security policy, Cyber Security policy and
standards based on industry best practices with compliance to regulatory
guidelines. These policies are aligned with the regulatory directives on
Information and Cyber security and with global best practices like NIST,
ISO27001:2013, PCI DSS etc.
The governance framework is in place at executive level with Information
System Security Committee constituting key business functions meeting
at least once in a quarter to assess the threat landscape and validate the
controls enforced in the Bank commensurate with the cyber risks.
The Bank has invested in strong technical and administrative controls
to proactively prevent, detect and contain and respond any suspicious
activity. The Bank is compliant to ISO27001 standard and PCI DSS
standard. The Bank conducts various assessments to identify and
remediate risks before any application and/or IT infrastructure
component is deployed. These assessments include Application security,
vulnerability assessment, penetration testing, security architecture
review data security assessment etc. The Bank also has adopted
defense in depth methodology to protect its valuable assets from
intrusion by malicious actors. The Bank has 24 x 7 Security Operation
Center (SOC) to keep vigil on its digital assets and coordinates with
RBI, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN), National
Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC), National
Payments Corporation Of India (NPCI) etc. for implementation of their
recommendation to strengthen its defense against cyber-attacks.
The Information System Security Committee of the Bank provides
directions for mitigating operational risk in the information systems.
Over the year, the Bank has focused on strengthening the operational
and information security risk frameworks by implementing several
initiatives.
266 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Strategic initiatives undertaken in fiscal 2025
The Bank has invested in strengthening the risk infrastructure across multiple dimensions.
During fiscal 2025, the Risk Department enhanced its coverage of risks by strengthening the governance around group
risk through a comprehensive group risk appetite and deeper coverage of key risks by the EGRMC. The Department also
continued to enhance its scope of model risk by enhancing the model governance and validation processes.
In terms of control environment, the Department strengthened controls around operational risk, technology resilience and
digital banking, leading to a reduction in the level of critical and persistent operational risks.
Finally, Risk Department led the operational risk and compliance culture initiatives and tracked the milestones therein to
closure, which would, over time, lead to a robust risk lens being embedded in business.
Risk Department also continued to work on its four areas of distinctiveness -
• Enhancing the climate and ESG risk conversations in the Bank
• Training and certification for cyber security
• Models in the retail lending space for credit – led underwriting
• Models and toolkits for rural lending
The Risk team remains focused on supporting the Bank in implementing its GPS strategy in a risk – sensitive manner. To
that end, the team has identified a few critical initiatives to support the various strategic thrusts such as enhancing toolkits
around digital banking, rural lending, cyber security, universal underwriting and enhanced credit monitoring. Further, to
strengthen the risk culture, Risk Department will focus on stronger risk appetite governance, proactive risk actioning around
key risk concerns and enhanced group risk oversight.
Successful implementation of these initiatives will help the Bank to achieve its GPS objectives in a sustainable manner,
embedded in the bedrock of a robust assurance culture.
Subsidiary Governance
As a Financial Conglomerate (FC), Axis Group has established a robust framework & process of governance over its subsidiaries,
approved by the parent Bank’s Risk Management Committee and Board, and Subsidiary Governance Department (SGD),
which plays key role in ensuring:
a. alignment of important policies by the subsidiaries with group wide policies & best practices; and
b. regular engagement with the subsidiaries and the concerned departments in the Bank involved in the process of
governance over subsidiaries to review status of governance and further reporting to group level executive committees
and the committees of the Board of the Bank.
Over the last year, the Bank has tightened the process of governance over subsidiaries and some of the important measures
taken include review of penalties levied by regulators on the subsidiaries to reduce, if not eliminate, them in a sustainable
manner, by guiding them to make changes in systems & processes. Further, framework for reporting of significant events has
been put in place, which lists down the incidents/events which the subsidiaries are required to report to the Bank along with
timeline, details to be shared and the recipient departments & process to be followed thereafter by respective departments
responsible for reporting to executive & Board committees.
All the matters of subsidiary governance are overseen by the executive committees, namely Subsidiary Governance
Committee (SGC) & Enterprise Risk Management Committee (EGRMC) and Board of the Bank as well as committees of the
Board, namely ACB, RMC and CSCB. These forums are provided update on important matters relating governance in the
group companies by group assurance heads and SGD on a quarterly basis.
267
Statutory reports
Compliance
Compliance function is one of the key elements in the Banks’ corporate governance structure. The Bank follows Board
approved policies to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements, which are updated regularly to factor in the
changing and increasing regulatory and supervisory requirements and expectations, as well as other good practices.
Identification, assessment, and management of compliance risks and ensuring timely and comprehensive compliance to
regulatory requirements on an ongoing basis is an integral part of basic responsibilities of every employee, stakeholder, and
function within the Bank. The Board and senior management emphasise zero tolerance for non-compliance to regulatory
requirements.
The Bank’s Compliance department ensures that overall business of the Bank is conducted in strict adherence to the
guidelines/statutory provisions as stipulated by the regulators/authorities and guides the business units and other
stakeholders on regulatory requirements with a special emphasis on better understanding of the perspective/spirit of the
guidelines and regulations. It closely works with Risk and Internal Audit functions and monitors various activities of the
Bank with emphasis on proactive regulatory risk management.
The Bank has been undertaking various projects/measures to strengthen the compliance monitoring, as part of continuous
improvement, through review of frameworks, processes, enhancement of technology, use of AI tools, etc. The other
important focus areas to ensure robust regulatory compliance continues to be the frameworks for Root Cause Analysis (RCA),
accountability & consequence management, self-identification of issues & remediation by first line of defence, compliance
testing frameworks and automation of processes wherever feasible to eliminate the operational errors.
The Bank has also strengthened its oversight over its subsidiaries through implementation of group governance framework/
policy, review of compliance with the business licenses issued by regulators/authorities to subsidiaries and alignment of
policies of subsidiaries with Bank’s policies wherever required. All heads of compliance functions in the subsidiaries have a
dotted line reporting to the Group Chief Compliance Officer, who oversees the status of regulatory compliance across the
group through laid down process of timely and regular reporting by the subsidiaries and an ongoing monitoring process.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit function of the Bank operates independently under the supervision of the Audit Committee of the Board,
which reviews & evaluates the efficacy and performance of the internal audit function. The audit policy, strategy and plan
for carrying out audits across functions of the Bank and the Axis Group are approved by the Audit Committee of the Board.
Further, audit policy, strategy and plan are reviewed regularly to factor in inputs received from regulatory guidance, changes
in regulations, business landscape & emerging areas of business and risks, learnings from various operational failures, risk
incidents, frauds, etc., in a dynamic manner.
The Internal Audit function provides an independent assurance to the Board of Directors and Senior Management on the
quality and efficacy of the internal controls, risk management systems, governance systems and processes in place on an
on-going basis. This is provided to primarily ensure that business and non-business functions are following both internal and
regulatory guidelines and processes.
In line with the RBI’s guidelines on Risk Based Internal Audit (RBIA), the Bank has adopted a risk based internal audit policy.
The Risk Based Internal Audit policy has been designed factoring regulatory guidelines and international best practices.
The policy has a well-defined architecture for conducting Risk Based Internal Audit which articulates the audit strategy
in terms of a concerted focus on strategic and emerging business risks. These inputs form a key step in the identification
of the audit universe for the audit planning exercise. The audit frequencies are in congruence with the risk profile of each
unit which is audited. Further, concurrent audit, off-site audit, and thematic & snap audit reviews have been integrated into
the internal audit process to make the function more robust. The Audit function recommends for making improvements in
operational processes, design elements and policies, as part of audit report recommendations.
Emerging technologies like artificial intelligence and robotic process automation are deployed to harness enhanced
efficiency and effectiveness in performance of audits. Automated checks and tests have been developed across various
functions covering retail, wholesale, treasury, operations, and also to augment thematic audits, information security audit,
revenue audit and concurrent audit, to independently evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on
an ongoing basis and to proactively recommend enhancements to the process owners. The Internal Audit function has
mix of resources with expertise in technology and functional skill for effectively conducting various types of audits. The
268 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Internal Audit function continuously strives to enhance its effectiveness & efficiency through internal reviews and external
evaluations and augmenting skill sets of the audit resources for making Internal Audit Function agile and responsive towards
the emerging and strategic risks.
Internal Audit framework for subsidiaries has been further strengthened under the Group governance framework by having
group audit policy, which is supplemented by structured engagement, audit oversight, monitoring of key KRIs and conducting
thematic audits.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & Sustainability
CSR
The Bank’s ‘OPEN’ philosophy continues to shape its strategy and actions towards creating long term impact in the
community. Through its CSR interventions, which are guided by the CSR Policy and overseen by the Board and its CSR
Committee, the Bank has been contributing towards the socio-economic welfare of underprivileged and under-represented
communities across the country primarily under the broad themes of sustainable livelihoods, education, financial literacy
and inclusion, conservation and protection of the environment, health & nutrition, sports, as well as humanitarian and
relief based interventions. The Bank’s CSR efforts consciously strive to touch the most marginalized communities such as
those in the aspirational districts, remote regions and north-east regions. The Bank continues to ensure that its CSR Policy,
governance and oversight, and project implementation are in accordance with the Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013
and all rules made thereunder.
The Bank’s CSR interventions continue to be delivered directly, through credible implementation partners, and the CSR arm
of the Bank viz. Axis Bank Foundation.
Axis Bank Foundation was established in 2006 as a Trust to give strategic direction to the Bank’s CSR aspirations. Since
2012, the foundation’s activities are focused on the theme of Sustainable Livelihoods, delivered across the two pillars of
Rural Livelihoods and Skill Development. Since 2018, the Foundation has implemented its ambitious ‘Mission 2 Million’
commitment of supporting 2 million households in India. In fiscal 2025, ABF achieved this milestone impacting 2.05 million
participants across 300 districts in 32 states and union territories as on 31 March, 2025. In this fiscal alone, it reached 0.39
million participants.
This year, the Bank expanded its efforts in Education theme – scaling Axis DilSe® interventions to new remote geographies,
strengthening education system through key partnerships, and supporting advance research and innovation.
The Bank expanded its Axis DilSe® interventions to Arunachal Pradesh, launching a school transformation program in Shi
Yomi district and establishing a Teacher Training & Skill Academy at Mechuka. This initiative in partnership with Sunbird
Trust, is expected to benefit more than 2,500 children and 900 teachers over the program period, strengthening the
education ecosystem in the region. Additionally, the Bank scaled up its Block Transformation Program in partnership with
Tata Steel Foundation to six more blocks – three in Odisha and three in Jharkhand – building on the success of Odapada
block transformation program. This expansion ensures equitable and quality education for more communities.
As part of strengthening the education system, the Bank partnered with Sri Aurobindo Society to build the teacher capacity
of over 300 Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan Schools and over 80 state government schools across 6 states, in competency-
based learnings, assessments, and pedagogies, in alignment with NEP 2020. Additionally, the Bank collaborated with Mantra
Social Services to improve educational outcomes by catalyzing collective action in five districts across Chhattisgarh, Odisha
and Jharkhand, driving systemic improvements in the education sector.
To support research and innovation, the Bank scaled up its partnership with Plaksha University to construct and
operationalize Future Tech building which will house experiential learning spaces, innovation facilities, and collaborative
hubs. Additionally, the Bank will institute a Faculty Chair at the university and support Ph.D. and Post doctoral fellowships
to strengthen academic excellence and research impact.
As part of the Bank’s efforts in the Healthcare sector, it announced strategic partnerships with three leading cancer care
and research institutions—National Cancer Grid (NCG) under Tata Memorial Centre, The Indian Cancer Society (ICS), and St
Jude India Childcare Centers. The partnership will enhance digital oncology infrastructure, improve access to cancer care,
and support research and early diagnosis initiatives.
269
Statutory reports
This year, the Bank also introduced sports as a new thematic focus area. The Bank partnered with Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ)
to support 224 athletes and para-athletes across 10 Olympic and 8 paralympic disciplines. Additionally, in collaboration with
Inspire Institute of Sport (IIS), the Bank launched a Judo Development Program in Manipur to nurture grassroots talent in the
Judo discipline. Under this initiative, 104 young judokas received foundational training in Manipur, while 53 female judokas
will be awarded full scholarships to study and train at the state-of-the-art IIS campus in Vijayanagar, Karnataka.
Under the Environment theme, the Bank made considerable progress towards meeting its commitment planting 2 million
trees across India by 2027 and continued to support plantation programs over and above its commitment. As of 31 March,
2025, ~3.27 million saplings had been planted across 7 geographies by the Bank’s implementing partners thereby achieving
its target. The interventions also supporting vulnerable communities living in the peripheries of protected forests and
reducing human-animal conflict.
During the year, the Bank extended humanitarian support and relief in flood affected areas in Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra
and Manipur working with its partners or local organizations. Additional details on the Bank’s CSR governance, interventions
and impact for the reporting year can be accessed in the Annual Report on CSR Activities which forms part of this Annual
Report. Additional information is also available on the Bank’s corporate website at https://www.axisbank.com/csr and on the
Foundation’s website at http://www.axisbankfoundation.org/
ESG
Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) is integral to the Bank’s long-term organizational strategy and actions. The Bank
continues to align its overall decision-making and subsequent operations to its Purpose Statement - ‘Banking that leads to a
more inclusive and equitable economy, thriving community and a healthier planet’.
To drive action on focused themes under the larger ESG agenda, specific groups have been set up at the management level.
These include the ESG Working Group to drive sustainable financing initiatives and the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI)
Council to drive the diversity focus. In fiscal 2022, Axis Bank had become the first Indian bank to establish a standalone
Board level ESG Committee, enabling the Bank to align its diverse priorities and activities under a unified and cohesive
ESG agenda. Under the ESG Committee’s oversight, the Bank had also announced a series of ESG-aligned commitments
with its business and non-business activities, which are being driven by the pertinent verticals across the organization. The
Bank’s commitments are aligned to pertinent Sustainable Development Goals and to India’s climate commitments under
the Paris Agreement. In fiscal 2025, the ESG Committee of the Board met 4 times, wherein it reviewed the Bank’s progress
towards achieving its ESG-aligned commitments and also provided its guidance on new initiatives and activities. The Bank’s
overall ESG-aligned activities, highlights and developments during the fiscal, including its progress on its commitments, are
published in this Integrated Annual Report which is aligned to the <IIRC> framework and the GRI reporting framework.
Towards its commitment of achieving incremental wholesale lending of `30,000 crores in sectors with positive sustainable
impact by 2026, as included in the Bank’s Sustainable Financing Framework, the Bank achieved `30,409 crores of incremental
lending as of 31 March, 2024 thereby meeting its target much in advance. Therefore, in this fiscal, the Bank re-evaluated the
wholesale lending target and set it to `60,000 crores to sectors with positive social and environmental outcomes by 2030.
The Bank has achieved `48,412 crores of incremental lending as of 31 March, 2025. In fiscal 2022, the Bank had also taken
an internal commitment to scaling down its exposure to coal mining and trading, and thermal power sectors, which is being
tracked on a quarterly basis and reported to the ESG Committee of the Board. As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s exposure to
these two sectors was well within the annual limits set as part of the glide path. The Bank’s total Wholesale lending portfolio
in the ‘green’ sectors stood at `22,160 crores as of 31 March, 2025.
Towards its commitment to making 5% of its Retail Two-Wheeler loan portfolio as electric by March 2024, the Bank achieved
an EV share of 3.62% till fiscal 2024 (cumulatively since 1 October, 2021), partly due to policy changes such as changes to
FAME II program and consumer anxiety around charging infrastructure and lack of used market. Notably, in this period, the
Bank entered into exclusive dealer finance programs, launched a differential policy to support the EV segment, and scaled its
retail tie ups, in addition to offering a sector-leading up to 0.5% interest discount on EV loans, thus achieving an EV share of
5.53% for this fiscal. During the year, the Bank also re-evaluated its EV lending portfolio and set up new targets to increase
the share of electric vehicle revenue in two-wheeler loan portfolio and four-wheeler passenger loan portfolio to 6% and 4%
respectively by 2027. As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank has achieved an incremental lending of 7.14% in Two-Wheeler electric
vehicle and 2.92% in Four-Wheeler passenger segment electric vehicle. The Bank is also actively scaling its ESG aligned retail
products including solar rooftop loans for SMEs and green home loans.
270 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Under the ESG Committee’s oversight, the Bank has been actively working towards strengthening its climate risk management
capabilities at the enterprise level. In 2022, the Bank had reached its first milestone of embedding ESG- and climate-related
risks and opportunities into its annual Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). In 2023, the Bank had also
significantly strengthened its ESG Policy for Lending that integrates environmental and social risk assessment into its credit
appraisal for Wholesale Banking. The updated Policy now mandatorily requires scrutiny of proposals in sectors identified
as hazardous, such as coal mining, thermal power and hazardous chemicals. Notably, key proposals discussed at the Board’s
Committee of Directors now include an assessment under the ESG Policy for Lending.
In 2023, the Bank had launched a pilot ESG Rating Model for select clients in the Wholesale Banking business vertical. The
Model, developed in-house, includes more than 80 parameters across the three pillars of E, S and G and went live in March
2024 for select sectors. Notably, the Bank has also published its first ESG Risk dashboard, that has also been presented to
the Board’s Risk Management Committee. As part of the said dashboard, the Bank has also developed a hazard heat map for
identified sectors, including its Retail Mortgages, Rural, and MSME lending verticals. Additionally, the dashboard also includes
an assessment of the transition risk in sectors identified as having “high” transition risk, including iron and steel, cement,
and fertilizers and agrochemicals. During the year, the Bank’s Risk and Wholesale Underwriting verticals participated in a
two-day Climate Risk training by Indian and international experts as part of a UK Government program.
The Bank continues its focus on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI). Towards its commitment to achieve 30% representation
of women in its workforce by fiscal 2027, the Bank has been actively scaling up hiring diversity across all business and
support verticals while launching innovative initiatives that truly embody the Bank’s organizational ethos. In line with the
same, in fiscal 2021, the Bank introduced “Pause for Bias” as an integral component of the induction module for new joiners.
This module encourages employees to recognize and address their inherent biases. This further lays the foundation for the
Bank’s “Gateway to Inclusion” program with its focus on ensuring everyday inclusion. By reaching out to over 16,000 people
managers, the Bank ensures that every team is enriched by diverse perspectives and that diverse representation is integral
to every decision-making process. The Bank established the “Women in Sales” employee resource group with a focused
mission to build an ecosystem that promotes capacity building, mentoring, and holistic support. This group is driven by a
core committee of 30 senior leaders and a working committee of 100 employees from across various business units and with
representation of men and women from Axis group—all dedicated to elevating women’s success in sales. Breaking heuristic
patterns in hiring, the #HouseWorkIsWork campaign continues to champion homegrown skills as the cornerstone of its
hiring strategy. Drawing interest from over 4,000 candidates, this initiative affirms that a career break should not mean a
permanent pause rather a fresh start enriched with new, valuable life-taught skills. The Bank continues its effort in creating
an inclusive ecosystem for employees and customers from the LGBTQIA+ community through the #ComeAsYouAre Charter,
This Charter highlights progressive policies— health coverage of partners regardless of marital status or gender, to offering
inclusive leave benefits for birthing parents and their partners, along with a dress code that honours each individual’s self-
affirmed gender identity. The Bank formalized the Pride365 employee resource group that has grown from strength to
strength from 7 employees during its inception year to over 1,000 employees with representation from diverse identities
in the queer spectrum. Beyond internal programs, the Bank is also furthering its external impact on DEI. The Bank actively
engages with communities and with people in the corporate ecosystem to promote best practices in diversity and inclusion,
thereby catalysing positive change across society at large. The Bank’s grass rooted effort Axis Women in Motion reached
over 25,000 people from across towns, hinterlands and talukas—this program is focussed on encouraging women to build
themselves as independent economic entities. Focusing on the student ecosystem, with a vision of cultivating the next
generation of inclusive leaders, the Axis DE&I Curriculum on Building and Leading Inclusive Organizations was administered
in 20 academic institutes, awarding certificates to over 800 students. These comprehensive sessions equip emerging leaders
with the insights necessary to create and sustain inclusive environments, setting the stage for a transformative future in
workplaces everywhere.
This fiscal year the Bank’s initiative “Axis ViBE”, (varsity of inclusive business enterprises) continued its focus on championing
robust DEI practices across the broader business community and nurturing a collaborative ecosystem that values equity and
inclusion. Through a series of dynamic events, this initiative reached 165 organisations.
With these initiatives, the Bank remains steadfast in its belief that every voice matters and that authentic inclusion drives
innovation, excellence, and lasting success.
During the year, the Bank significantly scaled up its participation in and contribution to thought leadership and advocacy
around the topics of ESG, climate change, financial inclusion, diversity, and sustainable finance, among others. The Bank’s
271
Statutory reports
senior leaders are members of key committees on these topics at FICCI, CII, IBA, MCA, among others, as well as at the
market regulators including SEBI.
The Bank continues to deliver steady performance at key ESG assessment and recognition platforms. The Bank was on the
FTSE4Good Index for the eighth consecutive year in 2024. The Bank maintains an ‘A’ Rating by MSCI ESG Ratings and is
scored C in the CDP. The Bank has improved its S&P Global ESG score to 57 and has an improved ESG Risk Rating of 19.4 as
of last full update - March 2025 by Sustainalytics. Axis Bank is among Top 10 constituents of S&P BSE CARBONEX Index,
MSCI India ESG Leaders Index and the Nifty100 ESG Sector Leaders Index.
Human Resources
Employees: The Core of Axis Bank’s Growth Journey
At Axis Bank, our people are our greatest asset, driving the Bank’s long-term objectives and commitment to excellence.
We continue to build an engaging and enriching environment for our employees through innovative initiatives and policies
designed to foster growth, inclusion, and a high-performance culture.
Investing in Capability Building
Axis Bank remains committed to enhancing employee skills and competencies through targeted learning initiatives. In fiscal
2025, we delivered over 6 million hours of training to 100,000+ employees, leveraging over 10 distinct capability factories
focused on banking knowledge and leadership development. To build a strong leadership pipeline and foster future-ready
talent, we continued to invest in our flagship talent management programs - AHEAD and ASTROS. The fourth edition of
AHEAD Internal commenced in March 2024 for fiscal 2025, bringing on board 40 high-potential employees who underwent
an extensive induction and mentoring journey. ASTROS has been successfully launched in March 2025, expanding our
commitment to developing leadership capabilities across the Bank.
Strengthening Our Cultural Foundation
The Bank’s culture is deeply rooted in five core values: ownership, teamwork, transparency, ethics, and customer centricity.
These values serve as the guiding principles for our actions, shaping a workplace where fairness, diversity, and performance
excellence thrive. With a strong network of over 2,300 Axis Value Realisers (AVRs), our culture champions drive these values
across the organization. In 2024, Axis Bank was recognized once again as a Great Place to Work® certified organization,
marking our fourth consecutive year of this achievement.
Elevating Internal Talent through ‘Thrive’
Our internal talent mobility program, ‘Thrive,’ continues to empower employees by offering structured career progression
opportunities. The internal job platform, Catalyst, ensures transparency and accessibility, with all internal job postings made
available for at least seven days before public listing. In fiscal 2025, over 5,700 employees advanced their careers within Axis
Bank through Catalyst. Furthermore, our policy linking internal job movements with promotions enabled accelerated career
growth, with fast-track promotions occurring up to one year ahead of tenure-based eligibility.
Expanding Campus Hiring & Early Career Programs
The Bank’s structured hiring programs continue to attract top talent from premier institutions. Our flagship campus hiring
initiatives include AHEAD, which recruits from Tier 1 B-schools like IIMs; Aspire, which targets talent from new IIMs and
IITs; ABLe, which engages postgraduates from Tier 2 B-schools; We Lead, a specialized diversity hiring program for women
leaders from premier institutes; ASA (Axis Sales Academy), a hire-train-deploy model for freshers to get a headstart into
banking sales and ARISE, an open program to hire young talent from diverse disciplines, enhancing skills diversity.
Performance-Driven Culture & Recognition
Our meritocracy-driven culture was further strengthened in FY25 through enhanced Key Result Area (KRA) assessments
and mid-year performance reviews. A mandatory attrition-based KRA for AVP+ leaders helped improve retention.
Through our robust recognition programs, we celebrated excellence across the Bank with several key initiatives.
The Champions Awards honored 86 employees at our flagship R&R event. Through Ahead Of the Curve (AOC), we
felicitated 595 managers. Our quarterly initiative, Anchors recognized everyday excellence of 3,183 employees. The OGs
Program celebrated long service milestones of 7,000+ employees. Additionally, 20 retirees were honored through the
Retiring with Pride program for their invaluable contributions.
272 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management’s discussion and analysis
Advancing Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I)
The Bank is steadfast in its DE&I commitment, aiming for 30% women in its workforce by 2027. Pride365, our LGBTQIA+
employee group, grew from 7 to 1,000+ members. Axis Women in Motion empowered 25,000+ women across towns and
talukas to become economically independent. Our DE&I curriculum on inclusive leadership trained 800+ students across 20
academic institutes. Axis ViBE (Varsity of Inclusive Business Enterprises) engaged 165 organizations to promote equitable
business practices. These efforts, both internal and external, reflect our belief that every voice matters—and that true
inclusion drives innovation, excellence, and long-term impact across workplaces and society.
Prioritising Employee Well being
The Bank prioritizes employee well being through its comprehensive wellness programs. Besides one-on-one multi-modal
therapy sessions, the “Wellness Sherpas” initiative provides peer-led support where employees are equipped with the tools
to be emotional first aid providers. Of these, some are trained specifically on LGBTQIA+ sensitivity and are called the
Pride365 Wellness Sherpas, ensuring inclusive care.
Embracing the Future of Work
Our GIG-A initiative continues to redefine workforce flexibility, with over 2,500 employees operating in remote roles.
Additionally, the Bank scaled up GIG-A Freelancer, engaging 70+ professionals for niche projects with a 1:1 gender ratio.
The Hybrid Work Model is now firmly established, with non-branch employees working from the office twice a week.
Conclusion
Axis Bank remains committed to fostering an inclusive, high-performance, and employee-centric workplace. Our strategic
HR initiatives are designed to empower our workforce, strengthen leadership pipelines, and enhance employee well being,
ensuring that Axis Bank continues to be an employer of choice in the evolving financial landscape.
Subsidiary Performance
The Bank’s subsidiaries remain central to the principle of “One Axis’ and have an important role to play in the Bank’s
strategy formulated around the three vectors - Growth, Profitability and Sustainability. In a short span of time, the Bank has
established subsidiaries covering a significant gamut of the financial services space, with some of them being leaders in their
segments. Axis Capital continues to maintain its leadership position in the ECM segment. Axis Mutual Fund maintained its
position as the fastest growing AMC amongst the Top 10 players and is now the eighth largest player with ~5% share in the
industry AUM, Axis Finance has grown its AUF at 31% CAGR from fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2025 while delivering healthy returns.
The Bank continues to focus on further scaling up the subsidiaries so that they attain meaningful size and market share in
their respective businesses. The domestic subsidiaries, collectively, reported a net profit of `1,768 crores in fiscal 2025. This
translates into a return on investment of 46%.
Axis Capital Limited
Axis Capital, the Bank’s investment banking and institutional equities franchise has been the leader in equity and equity
linked deals over the last decade and had another great year with highest number of transactions (44 ECM deals across
IPO, QIPs, OFS and Rights Issue). Axis Capital’s earning increased by 7% and contributed 9% to the total earnings of the
subsidiaries.
Axis Asset Management Limited
Axis AMC, that had 12.9 million client folios as at end of 31 March, 2025 and contributed 28% to the total earnings of the
subsidiaries. The Company manages 82 mutual fund schemes with a closing AUM of `305,717 crores as compared to closing
AUM of `265,875 crores as on 31 March, 2024 and was ranked 8th amongst the mutual fund Industry in India. The AUM
under Axis pension fund management stood at `8,854 crores as on 31 March, 2025.
Axis Securities Limited
The retail brokerage firm reported 15% growth in cumulative client base to 6.36 million. Axis Securities’ earnings grew
39% as compared to previous period, and contributed 24% to total subsidiaries’ earnings. The subsidiary achieved a trading
volume of `20,614,351 crores thereby registering a growth of 23% in fiscal 2025.
273
Statutory reports
Axis Finance Limited
Axis Finance Limited, the Bank’s NBFC has been diversifying its loan book mix and has made significant investments to grow
its retail team with the objective of becoming a consumer focused lending company. Axis Finance’s earning increased by 11%
Y-o-Y and contributed 38% to total subsidiaries’ earnings. Axis Finance remains well capitalized with Capital Adequacy Ratio
of 20.90%. Its asset quality metrics remain stable with net NPA of 0.37% as of 31 March, 2025.
Freecharge Payments Technologies Private Limited
Freecharge Payments Technologies Pvt Ltd continues to lead the charge in delivering innovative and scalable digital financial
solutions for both retail consumers and merchants. As a strategic partner to Axis Bank, Freecharge operates as both a
technology service provider and business correspondent, while steadily expanding its portfolio of merchant-centric financial
products. Freecharge also has a Payment Aggregator arm, having the best in class capabilities and features, and enabling
online merchants, Banks and Financial institutions to accept digital payments from their customers.
Driven by a mission to promote financial inclusion and elevate transaction efficiency, Freecharge upholds the highest
standards of security and regulatory compliance. The Company has significantly strengthened its on-ground presence, now
operating across 100 locations, and has introduced unsecured business loans for small and micro-businesses, along with
Microfinance (MFI) loans tailored to the digitally underserved segments.
Recognized as one of the most trusted names in digital financial services, Freecharge has firmly established itself as one
of the fastest scan-and-pay platforms for UPI transactions, delivering seamless and reliable payment experiences. Its UPI
Gross Merchant Value (GMV) witnessed a remarkable 132% year-on-year growth, surging from `3,211 crores in fiscal 2024
to `7,461 crores in fiscal 2025.
A.TReDs Limited
A.TReDs Limited, the Bank’s subsidiary that was set up in partnership with M-Junction, was one of the three entities allowed
by RBI to set up the Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS), an electronic platform for facilitating cash flows for
MSMEs. The Bank’s digital invoice discounting platform ‘Invoicemart’ has set a new benchmark by facilitating financing of
MSME invoices of more than `180,000 crores since inception. It currently has over 47,300 participants on the platform and
has e-discounted nearly 40 lakh invoices since start of its operation from July 2017.
SAFE HARBOR
Except for the historical information contained herein, statements in this Annual Report which contain words or phrases
such as “will”, “aim”, “will likely result”, “would”, “believe”, “may”, “expect”, “will continue”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “intend”,
“plan”, “contemplate”, “seek to”, “future”, “objective”, “goal”, “strategy”, “philosophy”, “project”, “should”, “will pursue” and
similar expressions or variations of such expressions may constitute “forward-looking statements”. These forward-looking
statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to our ability
to successfully implement our strategy, future levels of non-performing loans, our growth and expansion, the adequacy of
our allowance for credit losses, our provisioning policies, technological changes, investment income, cash flow projections,
our exposure to market risks as well as other risks. Axis Bank Limited undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date thereof.
274 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To
The Members of Axis Bank Limited
Independent Auditor’s Certificate on Compliance with the Corporate Governance requirements under SEBI
Listing Regulations
1. We, M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, hereinafter referred to as “Joint Statutory Auditors” have been
requested by Axis Bank Limited (the “Bank”), having its registered office at the ‘Trishul’, 3rd Floor, Opp. Samartheshwar
Temple, Law Garden, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad 380006 to issue a certificate on compliance with the conditions of
corporate governance, as required under part E of Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”).
2. We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by the Bank, for the year ended on
31 March, 2025, as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paras C, D and E of
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations as amended from time to time (the “Corporate Governance Regulations”).
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
3. The compliance of Corporate Governance Regulations is the responsibility of the Bank’s Management, including
the preparation and maintenance of all the relevant records and documents. This responsibility includes the design,
implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the Corporate
Governance Regulations.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
4. Our examination is limited to examine the procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Bank for ensuring
compliance of the Corporate Governance Regulations. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the Financial
Statements of the Bank.
5. Pursuant to the requirements of the Corporate Governance Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a
reasonable assurance whether the Bank has complied with the Corporate Governance Regulations for the year ended
31 March, 2025.
6. We conducted our examination of the above corporate governance compliance by the Bank in accordance with the
Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised 2016) and Guidance Note on Certification
of Corporate Governance both issued by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the “ICAI”), in so far as
applicable for the purpose of this certificate. The Guidance Note requires that we comply with the ethical requirements
of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
7. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality
Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and
Related Services Engagements.
8. For the purpose of this certificate, we have examined the books of accounts and other relevant records and documents
maintained by the Bank.
OPINION
9. Based on our examination of the relevant records and according to the information and explanations provided to us
and the representations provided by the Management, we certify that the Bank has complied with the Corporate
Governance Regulations during the year ended 31 March, 2025.
275
Statutory reports
10. We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
RESTRICTIONS ON USE
11. The Certificate is addressed and provided to the Members of the Bank solely for the purpose to enable the Bank to
comply with the requirement of the Corporate Governance Regulations and it should not be used by any other person
or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose
or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in
writing. We have no responsibility to update this certificate for any event or circumstances occurring after the date of
this Certificate.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants,
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No. 044577
Mumbai, April 25, 2025 ICAI UDIN: 25044577BMOBEE6759
276 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Report on Corporate Governance
(Part of the Board’s Report for the fiscal 2025)
I. Philosophy on Code of Governance
Axis Bank Limited (the “Bank”) recognises its role as a responsible corporate citizen and endeavors to adopt and
maintain the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Bank’s philosophy on corporate governance is to promote the culture of customer centricity, ownership, integrity,
sustainability, transparency and ethics, which enables the Bank to conduct itself in the right way while dealing with all
its stakeholders.
The Bank has a robust governance structure in place, led by an independent and diverse Board of Directors
(the “Board”). The Board believes in prompt and clear communication to its stakeholders, which reflects in the internal
functioning at the Bank.
The Bank believes in going beyond the law, to uphold the best-in-class corporate governance practices. In order to
protect the interest of all its stakeholders, the Bank has a strong compliance and risk management framework and it
continuously reviews its practices and processes, considering the dynamic environment it operates in.
II. Governance Structure of the Bank
The Board oversees the standards of corporate governance at the Bank. The directors are appointed by the members of
the Bank. The Managing Director & CEO reports to the Board of the Bank. The Deputy Managing Director (the “Deputy
MD”) and Executive Directors report to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank.
The Board has constituted various board level Committees for a more focused review of specific matters. The Bank has
also constituted various executive Committees to, inter alia, deal with routine, operational and administrative matters,
as well as to review various matters prior to their submission to the Board / Committees.
Diagrammatic representation of the governance structure of the Bank:
Board of
Directors
Managing Executive Independent Nominee
Deputy MD
Director & CEO Directors Directors Director
Board
Committees
Group
Executives
Audit Committee of the Board Risk Management Committee
Committee of Directors Environmental, Social and Governance
Committee
Customer Service Committee
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee
Executive Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Committees Special Committee of the Board of Directors
for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of Fraud
Review Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Committee of Whole-Time Directors
Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers
IT and Digital Strategy Committee
Committee
277
Statutory reports
III. Board of Directors
Size and composition of the Board
The composition of the Board is governed by the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and relevant
rules made thereunder, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”), the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the guidelines issued by the
Reserve Bank of India (the “RBI”), as amended, from time to time and the Articles of Association of the Bank (the
“extant laws”).
The Board has an optimum combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors with Independent Directors
constituting more than one-half i.e. 61.54% of its total strength. As on 31 March, 2025, the Board had thirteen
directors, comprising of Managing Director & CEO, Deputy MD, two Executive Directors, eight Independent Directors
and one Nominee Director of Life Insurance Corporation of India (“LIC”), promoter of the Bank. The Board is led by an
Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman. The Board has two women Directors of whom one is Independent.
None of the Directors are related to each other. All the Independent Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they
meet the criteria prescribed for independence under the provisions of Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b)
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions specified
under the said norms and are independent of the management.
Board Composition Board Gender Diversity Average Tenure
8% 15% 24%
38%
31%
61%
85% 38%
Independent Director < 2 years
Male
Executive Director 2-4 years
Female
Non-Executive Nominee Director > 4 years
Board Effectiveness
The Bank lays emphasis on evaluating the role of the Board in the aspects relating to strategic planning, identification
and management of risks, human resource, audit and compliance, governance, relationship with executive management,
flow of information, board functioning, induction and professional development, customer grievance and protection,
and financial inclusion.
Databank of Independent Directors
All the Independent Directors of the Bank are in compliance with provisions of the Companies (Appointment and
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, with respect to enrolling their name in the online databank of Independent
Directors and qualifying the online proficiency self-assessment test for Independent Directors, as applicable.
278 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Information about the directors including age, tenure of appointment, details of directorship, number of
membership / chairpersonship in the Board are as follows:
Number of directorship in Number of
Directorship in other
Name, category, other unlisted companies memberships / Equity
Sr. Date of first End date of current listed company(ies)
DIN and age of the Indian public (chairpersonships) shareholding
No. appointment term and category of Other
director limited in Board in the Bank
directorship1 Companies2
Companies Committees3
1. N. S. Vishwanathan 30 May, 2023 29 May, 2027 Nil Nil 2 1 Nil
Independent Director 27 October, 2023 26 October, 2026
Part-Time Chairman
DIN: 09568559
Age: 66
2. Amitabh Chaudhry 1 January, 2019 31 December, 2027 Nil 3 Nil Nil Nil
Managing Director
& CEO
DIN: 00531120
Age: 60
3. Girish Paranjpe 2 November, 2018 1 November, 2026 Crisil Limited, 1 4 4(2) Nil
Independent Director Independent.
DIN: 02172725 Mphasis Limited,
Age: 67 Independent.
4. Meena Ganesh 1 August, 2020 31 July, 2028 Pfizer Limited, Nil 8 4(2) Nil
Independent Director Independent.
DIN: 00528252 Hitachi Energy India
Age: 61 Limited,
Independent.
Pidilite Industries Limited,
Independent.
5. G. Padmanabhan 28 October, 2020 27 October, 2028 Haldyn Glass Limited, 1 Nil 1(0) Nil
Independent Director Independent.
DIN: 07130908 Ion Exchange (India)
Age: 69 Limited,
Independent.
6. Prof. S. Mahendra 14 June, 2021 13 June, 2025 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
Dev4
Independent Director
DIN: 06519869
Age: 67
7. P. N. Prasad 20 October, 2022 19 October, 2026 Styrenix Performance 1 1 4(1) 130
Independent Director Materials Limited,
DIN: 07430506 Independent.
Age: 64 Jyoti CNC Automation
Limited, Independent.
8. CH SS Mallikarjunarao 1 February, 2023 31 January, 2027 Nil 1 2 1(1) 20
Independent Director
DIN: 07667641
Age: 63
9. Mini Ipe 29 July, 2023 28 July, 2031 PTC India Limited, Nil 1 1(0) Nil
Non-Executive Independent.
Nominee Director - Avantel Limited,
LIC (shareholder) Independent.
DIN: 07791184
Age: 61
10. Pranam Wahi 15 February, 2024 14 February, 2028 DCM Shriram Limited, Nil Nil 1(0) Nil
Independent Director Independent.
DIN: 00031914
Age: 66
11. Rajiv Anand 4 August, 2016 3 August, 2025 Nil 1 2 Nil 585,062
Deputy MD
DIN: 02541753
Age: 59
12. Subrat Mohanty 17 August, 2023 16 August, 2026 Nil 3 1 Nil 770
Executive Director
DIN: 08679444
Age: 48
13. Munish Sharda 27 February, 2024 26 February, 2027 Nil 2 Nil Nil Nil
Executive Director
DIN: 06796060
Age: 54
1 None of the independent directors of the Bank serve as an independent director in more than seven listed companies or as a
whole-Time director in any listed company.
2 Includes foreign companies, private companies and Section 8 companies.
3 Includes only memberships of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee in Indian public limited companies other
than Axis Bank. Figures in brackets represent number of chairpersonship of the said Committees, as per the disclosure received from
the concerned director.
4 The Board has approved the re-appointment of Prof. S. Mahendra Dev for his second term of four years with effect from 14 June, 2025,
subject to the approval of the members of the Bank.
279
Statutory reports
All Directors of the Bank have submitted forms / declarations / undertakings / consent as required under the extant
laws. Pursuant to review of the said forms / declarations / undertakings / consent as submitted by the Directors of
the Bank, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (the “NRC”) and the Board of the Bank confirmed that all the
Directors are in compliance with the applicable norms and are fit and proper to continue as Directors of the Bank.
Process of Selection and Appointment of Directors
The selection and appointment of Directors of the Bank is done in accordance with the extant laws. The Bank has
formulated and adopted various policies, the details of which are provided below:
Conduct induction,
S P u P c la c o n e l n i s c i s y n io g n id v e a p n R c l t a a e i n n v fy n i c e i y c n w a t g n h s d a u n t i c e d c m e a e d t a s e s y s s i a a o t n r n o i d s f e ill Fi P t C o & r l i i t c P e y r r o o ia p n e r ca A n a d s n s id d e a s p t s r e s o s u p u i e t n a r d b n e i o l r i r t t m y h o s e f f it P D o B iv l o i e c a r y r s d i o t n y appo B i o n E a t n m r s d u e d r n e i t v s n e f e r a s w c it i l y itate P T o ra li i c n y i n o g n an c d o f l n a e m t a in r i n l u ia i o n r u g is s a p e t r i d o o u g n r c a a a m n ti d o s n fo r
Directors
Succession Planning Policy for the Board and Key Officials of the Bank
The Bank has formulated and adopted a Succession Planning Policy (the “policy”) for the Board and key officials of the
Bank, which has been reviewed by the NRC and the Board of the Bank.
The objective of the said policy is to, inter alia, assess, identify and nominate suitable candidates to fill vacancies
that may arise for positions of the Non-Executive Chairperson, Independent Directors, Managing Director & CEO,
Whole-Time Directors (including Deputy MD), Group Executives, Key Managerial Personnel and other key officials of
the Bank / subsidiary companies, from time to time. The aforesaid policy also seeks to plan for succession of the said
roles and to fill any vacancies that may arise out of impending move or retirement or resignation or sudden exit or for
any reason whatsoever in such roles. The policy also aims to identify the competency requirements for the aforesaid
positions, identify potential candidates and develop required competencies through planned training, development
and learning initiatives. The Bank does not have a succession planning process for Non-Executive (Nominee) Directors,
since they are nominated by Public Financial Institutions / Institutional Investors and are appointed pursuant to the
right to nominate a Director on the Board of the Bank, in terms of the Articles of Association of the Bank or in terms of
Shareholders Agreement entered into by them with the Bank.
The said policy also provides for the course of action to be initiated in case of delay or non-receipt of regulatory /
statutory approvals, relating to appointment / re-appointment of Managing Director & CEO or Whole-Time Directors
(including Deputy MD) or in case of a sudden vacancy in the position of Managing Director & CEO or Whole-Time
Directors (including Deputy MD), caused due to death or permanent incapacitation or for any other reason whatsoever.
The NRC considers the profile, skill set, experience, expertise, functional capabilities, disqualifications and other relevant
information and adherence to the regulators fit and proper norms, before making appropriate recommendations to the
Board relating to the appointment / re-appointment of a Director. This is designed to provide the Board with Directors
who have diverse knowledge, practical experience and requisite set of skills to serve the business interests of the Bank
and enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board.
Wherever necessary, the NRC engages the services of an external consultant / expert, to identify and assess the
suitability of candidates for the post of Director of the Bank.
During fiscal 2025, the Board reviewed and approved amendments to the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
Policy on fit and proper criteria for Directors of the Bank
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on fit and proper criteria for Board of Directors of the Bank (the “policy”).
In terms of the said policy, the NRC assesses and confirms to the Board the ‘fit and proper’ status of the Director as per
the extant laws, before considering his / her candidature for appointment / re-appointment as a Director of the Bank
and annually i.e., as at March 31 every year. The primary objective of the policy is to provide a framework to enable the
Bank to ensure that persons who are being considered for appointment / re-appointment as Directors of the Bank are
compliant with the fit and proper norms, as it is the key criteria on the basis of which, the candidature of person shall
be assessed and confirmed by the NRC, before it recommends the candidature of such person for being appointed /
re-appointed as a Director of the Bank, for the approval of the Board.
280 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
The Directors of the Bank, individually sign a deed of covenant which binds them to discharge their responsibilities to
the best of their abilities, in order to be eligible for being appointed / re-appointed as a Director.
The Bank obtains a declaration and undertaking on an annual basis on the ‘fit and proper’ criteria in accordance with
applicable RBI Regulations and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate
Agent) Regulations, 2015, from all the Directors.
During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved amendments to the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
Board Diversity Policy
The Bank recognizes and embraces the importance of a diverse Board and is endowed with appropriate balance of
skills, expertise, experience, and perspectives thereby ensuring effective board governance. The Board has reviewed
and adopted the policy on Board Diversity (the “policy”), which sets out its approach to ensure diversity, and to enhance
its effectiveness while discharging its fiduciary obligations towards the stakeholders of the Bank. The policy is available
on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance. During fiscal
2025, the Board also reviewed the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
In terms of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations and in the context of the Bank’s business(es) and sector(s), the
Board has identified the following mandated core skills / expertise / competencies for it to function effectively:
• Accountancy • Economics
• Agriculture and Rural Economy • Finance
• Banking • Small-Scale Industry
• Co-operation • Law
• Information Technology • Payment & Settlement Systems
• Human Resources • Risk Management
• Business Management
The Board has also specified direct and indirect criteria to determine the skill sets of the Directors. The details of
Director wise core skills / expertise / competencies are as follows:
Total
Sr.
Name of the Director experience Skills / Expertise / Competence
No.
(in years)
1. N. S. Vishwanathan 44 Banking | Economics | Human Resources Management | Risk Management |
Information Technology | Payments & Settlement System | Co-operation |
Non-Banking and Co-operative Banking Regulation and Supervision |
Internal Governance, Internal Control and Internal Audit | Supervision of Securities
Market
2. Amitabh Chaudhry 38 Finance | Banking | Business Management | Information Technology | Human
Resources | Risk Management | Accountancy | Insurance | Customer Service
3. Girish Paranjpe 40 Accountancy | Finance | Business Management | Information Technology | Human
Resources
4. Meena Ganesh 40 Technology Consulting | Business Management | Human Resources | Finance |
Entrepreneurship (BPO, Education and Health Care Services)
5. G. Padmanabhan 46 Bank Regulations | Information Technology | Payment System | Risk Management |
Economics | Finance | Supervision of Foreign Exchange / Securities Markets in
India | Customer Service
6. Prof. S. Mahendra Dev 41 Agriculture and Rural Economy | Economics and Co-operation | Finance
7. P. N. Prasad 42 Core Commercial Banking | Risk Management | Human Resource Development |
Agriculture and Rural Economy | Small Scale Industries | Corporate Banking - Project
Finance & Structuring | Stressed Asset Management and Resolution | Strategy &
Business Planning | Client Relationship | Trade Finance Operations | Alternative
Investments | International Banking | Audit and Compliance | Treasury Management
281
Statutory reports
Total
Sr.
Name of the Director experience Skills / Expertise / Competence
No.
(in years)
8. CH SS Mallikarjunarao 40 Accountancy | Banking | Small Scale Industry | Agriculture and Rural Economy | Risk
Management | Finance | Business Management | Information Technology | Human
Resources | Insurance
9. Mini Ipe 39 Accountancy | Finance | Law | Information Technology | Human Resources |
Risk Management | Business Management | Insurance | Customer Service |
Marketing | Stressed Asset Management
10. Pranam Wahi 43 Accountancy | Banking | Finance | Risk Management | Business Management |
Audit | Human Resources | Treasury
11. Rajiv Anand 36 Finance | Business Management | Accountancy | Banking | Capital Markets
12. Subrat Mohanty 25 Information Technology & Digital | Business Management | Finance | Banking |
Payment & Settlement | Insurance | Strategic Planning | Customer Service
13. Munish Sharda 33 Agriculture and Rural Economy | Banking | Finance | Law | Information Technology |
Human Resource | Risk Management | Business Management | Insurance
Total Experience 507
* Brief Profile of the Directors of the Bank is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/media-centre/board-of-
directors.
Familiarisation and Training for the Board
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on training for the Board of Directors of the Bank (the “policy”) which
aims at providing timely and wholesome orientation and training to its Directors to ensure that they are well versed
with the business, regulatory and operational aspects of banking. This enhances the knowledge and effectiveness of
the Directors, both individually and collectively, as members of the Board / Committees.
The said policy provides guidelines with respect to:
(a) Induction programme for new Directors;
(b) Familiarisation programme and Continuous Education and Learning Programme (“CELP”) for Directors.
During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
Induction programme for new Directors
The Bank conducts induction programme for new Directors through one-to-one meetings with the Managing Director &
CEO, Deputy MD, Executive Directors and other members of the senior management on matters relating to businesses,
credit underwriting, finance, business strategy, risk management, compliance, internal audit, human resources,
information technology / cyber security, environment, social & governance (“ESG”) and corporate social responsibility
(“CSR”), law, treasury, subsidiary governance and board process. They are also provided with the induction manual
including the governance policies, codes and charters.
On appointment, the Independent Directors are issued a letter of appointment setting out the terms and conditions
relating to the appointment and their duties and responsibilities under applicable laws. The format of said letter is also
uploaded on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
Familiarisation programme and Continuous Education and Learning Programme (CELP) for Directors
The Bank conducts familiarization programme and CELP for all its Directors including Independent Directors covering
the matters as specified under Regulation 25(7) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
These familiarisation programmes and CELP are conducted through a combination of experts from within the Bank
and / or external agencies with in-depth expertise in various areas, taking into consideration the business requirement
of the Bank, the existing skill sets of the Directors and recommendations made by them. Such sessions enable the
Directors to obtain an insight on contemporary matters and changes therein.
282 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
13 such programmes were organised for around 14 hours during fiscal 2025 details of which are as under:
1. Emerging Technologies and use case of AL/ML in future of Banking
2. Cybersecurity and Infosec
3. Global Geopolitical scenario
4. Board Governance – view from the regulator
5. Challenges and opportunities in the era of Digital Banking & FinTech
6. Board Governance
7. Global economic outlook and geopolitical events: impact on India and Banking
8. Annual update on AML for Board of Directors
9. Risk Management (Fraud Risk, Climate Risk, etc.)
10. Global macro environment & its impact on India
11. Indian banking industry – An investor’s perspective
12. Credit cycle in India
13. Gen AI and its use cases in banking.
The details of the programmes conducted and attendance of Directors have been uploaded on the website of the Bank
at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
Duties and Responsibilities of the Board
The role of the Board is to provide effective guidance and oversight to the management of the Bank so that it delivers
enduring sustainable value and is fully compliant with the extant laws and functions in an ethical and efficient manner.
The responsibilities of the Board, inter alia, include overseeing the functioning of the Bank, reviewing compliance of
all laws applicable to the Bank and efficacy of internal control systems / processes and framing, implementing and
monitoring the risk management plan of the Bank.
The Board is also responsible for approving the strategic decisions, plans and priorities for the Bank, monitoring
corporate performance against business plans, reviewing and approving the Bank’s financial and operating performance
on a periodic basis, overseeing the Bank’s corporate governance framework and supervising the succession planning
process for its Directors and senior management.
The Board spends considerable time perusing the information provided to them which facilitates informed decision
making and effective participation at its meetings, leading to higher board effectiveness. Apart from quarterly review
of the performance of the Bank, the Board meets once a year specifically to review the long-term strategy of the Bank.
The Board oversees the actions and results of the management to ensure that the long-term objectives of enhancing
shareholder’s value are met. The Board also has the discretion to engage the services of external experts / advisors, as
deemed appropriate.
The duties and responsibilities of the Board have been set out in the charter formulated and adopted by the Bank, in
terms of the extant laws. During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved amendments to its charter, in line
with the extant laws.
Role of Independent Directors
N. S. Vishwanathan, Girish Paranjpe, Meena Ganesh, G. Padmanabhan, Prof. S. Mahendra Dev, P. N. Prasad,
CH SS Mallikarjunarao and Pranam Wahi are the Independent Directors of the Bank. The role of an Independent
Director is to help in bringing an independent judgment on the Board’s deliberations, especially on the issues pertaining
to strategy, performance, risk management, human resources, governance, key appointments, and standards of conduct.
Independent Directors bring an unbiased view in evaluating performance of the Board and management and review
management’s performance in meeting their goals and objectives. Independent Directors safeguard the interests of all
the stakeholders, particularly the minority shareholders.
283
Statutory reports
Role of Independent Chairman
N. S. Vishwanathan, Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman of the Bank plays a critical role in managing and
facilitating effective functioning of the Board. He presides over meetings of the shareholders of the Bank, Board and
select Board Committees.
Role of Managing Director & CEO
Amitabh Chaudhry is the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank. He reports to the Board of the Bank and is vested with
powers of managing the affairs of the Bank, within the overall superintendence, control, guidance, and direction of the
Board.
As the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, he has the requisite delegated authority to perform all such acts, deeds,
matters and things, which he may consider necessary or appropriate to perform, in the business interest of the Bank.
Role of Deputy Managing Director
Rajiv Anand is the Deputy MD of the Bank and reports to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank. He is responsible
for wholesale banking, treasury and digital banking, marketing, corporate communications and public relations.
Role of Executive Directors
Subrat Mohanty and Munish Sharda are the Executive Directors of the Bank and report to the Managing Director
& CEO of the Bank. Subrat Mohanty is responsible for banking operations & transformation and leads the larger
verticals of retail & wholesale banking operations, information technology, business intelligence, digital banking and
certain other corporate functions at the Bank, including strategy, process excellence, customer experience, etc. Munish
Sharda is responsible for driving business growth across all product offerings of the Bank, including retail, MFI, MSME,
wholesale, retail liabilities & deposits for retail customers and small businesses, leading the retail portfolio management
group vertical and driving financial inclusion initiatives of the Bank.
Amitabh Chaudhry, Rajiv Anand, Subrat Mohanty and Munish Sharda are the key managerial personnel of the Bank, in
terms of the provisions of Section 203(1) read with Section 2(51) of the Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Appointment
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
IV. Meetings of the Board / Committees
Schedule of the meetings
The schedule of the meetings of the Board / Committees and the Annual General Meeting of the Bank to be held during
the next fiscal, is finalised and circulated in advance to the Board.
Framework for conduct of meetings of the Board / Committees
The Bank has formulated and adopted a framework for conduct of meetings of the Board / Committees of the Bank.
The said framework provides guidance on matters relating to administration of meetings by ensuring standardization
in the formats used for preparation of agenda index, agenda notes, minutes and circular resolutions and adopting best
practices from a compliance and governance perspective.
Agenda for the meetings
The RBI vide its Circular No. DBR No.BC.93129.67.001/2014-15 dated 14 May, 2015 has prescribed ‘seven critical themes’
to be reviewed by the Board namely business strategy, risk, financial reports and their integrity, compliance, customer
protection, financial inclusion and human resources. The agenda for Board meetings includes matters forming part of the
said critical themes, as stipulated by the RBI along with matters required under the provisions of the extant laws.
The agenda for the meetings of the Board / Committees is prepared and finalised in consultation with the chairperson
of the Board / respective Committees. The agenda notes and presentations for the meetings of the Board / Committees
are sent to the members of the Board / Committees in advance to enable them to read and comprehend the matters to
be dealt with and seek further information / clarification, as may be required.
The said agenda notes / presentations are circulated through a secured web-based portal to facilitate its easy access on
iPad / laptop / desktop. The agenda notes / presentations are presented in a manner, to facilitate informed decision making.
Members of the Board / Committees are free to recommend inclusion of any matter as part of the agenda for the said
meetings.
284 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Availability of information to the Board
Meetings follow structured agenda notes and background papers, circulated through a web-based portal, aligning
with the Bank’s green initiative. In addition to all items required pursuant to extant applicable regulations, updates
cover diverse areas such as business & operations, risk management, CSR activities, and ESG initiatives, alongside
other details like minutes of meetings, senior management appointments, subsidiary governance, strategic matters and
regulatory compliance.
Post-meeting follow-up mechanism
Important decisions taken and suggestions provided by the Board and its Committees are communicated to the relevant
departments for their information and necessary action. The actionables arising out of the meetings of the Board /
Committees are thereafter dealt with in accordance with the Bank’s framework for monitoring and implementation of
directions of the Board / Committees.
Framework for monitoring and implementation of the directions of the Board
The Bank has formulated and adopted a framework for monitoring and implementation of directions of the Board /
Committees. During fiscal 2025, the Board reviewed the aforesaid framework. The framework is in line with the Banks’
commitment to adopt and adhere to enhanced governance standards and to define a set of principles for identification
of actionable and the process for its monitoring, review and reporting to the Board / Committees.
In terms of this framework, actionables emanating from the deliberations at the meetings and actionables emanating
from the agenda notes are periodically monitored and reviewed until their closure. Subrat Mohanty, Executive Director
periodically reviews the actionables which are open beyond their original timelines. The consolidated status of all
actionables relating to the Board / Committees, is also reviewed by the Board, on a quarterly basis.
Annual Board Strategy Meet
The Bank believes that the annual strategy planning process provides a structured environment, formal as well as
informal, to focus on longer term direction, purpose and strategy of the Bank. At the three-day strategy meet, the Board
is able to reflect on and challenge managements’ assumptions and the thinking around the changing risk environment,
strategic planning, financial planning, review ongoing initiatives, assess risks to strategy execution, and discuss the need
for new strategic programs to achieve long-term objectives. This meet provides a platform for Directors to contribute
towards strategic initiatives and gain insights into the execution and other challenges faced within specific business
segments. Senior management delivers detailed presentations on key business segments and subsidiaries, fostering
discussions on strategic issues and competitive differentiation.
Minutes of the meetings
The draft minutes are sent within 15 days from the date of the conclusion of the meetings to the members of the
Board / Committees, for their comments. The minutes after incorporating the comments, if any, received from the
members of the Board / Committees are placed at the next meeting for noting and signing by the Chairperson of the
respective / previous meeting. The Bank has adopted a Guidance, Challenge and Instruction (“GCI”) framework, in
terms of which it circulates to the Directors a statement containing Guidance, Challenge and Instruction arising from
the deliberations at the meetings of the Board / Committees, along with the minutes.
In case of business exigencies or urgency of matters, resolutions are also passed by the Board / Committees through
circulation with the approval of the respective chairperson. The resolution passed by circulation is noted at the next
meeting of the Board / Committees.
Conduct of meetings
The meetings of the Board / Committees during fiscal 2025, were conducted in accordance with the provisions of
Rule 3 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time.
During fiscal 2025, nine meetings of the Board were held on 24 April, 2024, 19 June, 2024, 24 July, 2024,
4 October, 2024, 17 October, 2024, 22 October, 2024, 16 January, 2025, 31 January, 2025 and 22 March, 2025.
The quarterly Board meetings for considering financial results were held over a two-day period, conducted in-person.
During fiscal 2025, the Annual Board Strategy meeting was held from 22 March 2025 to 24 March, 2025.
285
Statutory reports
The gap between two Board meetings did not exceed the prescribed limit of 120 days. The requisite quorum was
present throughout and at all the meetings of the Board held during fiscal 2025.
All the statutory recommendations made by the Committees during the fiscal 2025 have been duly considered and
approved by the Board.
The details of the Board meetings attended during fiscal 2025 and attendance at the 30th Annual General Meeting of
the Bank (“AGM”), are given below:
Sr. Board meetings attended Attendance at last AGM
Name of the Directors % of attendance
No. during fiscal 2025 (26 July, 2024)
1. N. S. Vishwanathan 9/9 100 Yes
2. Amitabh Chaudhry 9/9 100 Yes
3. Girish Paranjpe 9/9 100 Yes
4. Meena Ganesh 9/9 100 Yes
5. G. Padmanabhan 9/9 100 Yes
6. Prof. S. Mahendra Dev 9/9 100 Yes
7. P. N. Prasad 9/9 100 Yes
8. CH SS Mallikarjunarao 9/9 100 Yes
9. Mini Ipe 9/9 100 Yes
10. Pranam Wahi 9/9 100 Yes
11. Rajiv Anand 8/9* 89 Yes
12. Subrat Mohanty 9/9 100 Yes
13. Munish Sharda 9/9 100 Yes
* Leave of absence was granted to Rajiv Anand from attending the meeting due to family commitment.
Resignation of Independent Director
None of the Independent Directors of the Bank resigned during the fiscal 2025.
Board Committees
The Board also functions through various Committees, constituted to deal with specific matters as mandated under the
extant laws. The charter of the Board Committees is subject to an annual review by the Board, pursuant to changes in
the extant laws or to meet the business requirements of the Bank.
As on 31 March, 2025, the Board has 13 Committees, details and composition of which are as follows:
Sr.
Name of the Committees
No.
1. Committee of Directors (“COD”)
2. Audit Committee of the Board (“ACB”)
3. Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
4. Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”)
5. Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)
6. Special Committee of the Board of Directors for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of frauds (“SCBMF”)
7. Customer Service Committee (“CSC”)
8. IT and Digital Strategy Committee (“ITDSC”)
9. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR”)
10. Review Committee (“RC”)
11. Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers Committee (“ADAM”)
12. Committee of Whole-Time Directors (“COWTD”)
13. Environmental, Social and Governance Committee (“ESG”)
* Out of 13 Committees, 10 are chaired by Independent Directors. The remaining three i.e., SCBMF, RC and COWTD are chaired by NED / ED
as per the extant norms.
286 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Composition of Committees:
Non-
Independent Directors Executive Whole-Time Directors
Director
Prof. S.
N. S. Girish Meena G. P. N. CH SS Pranam Amitabh Rajiv Subrat Munish
Mahendra Mini Ipe
Vishwanathan Paranjpe Ganesh Padmanabhan Prasad Mallikarjunarao Wahi Chaudhry Anand Mohanty Sharda
Dev
COD
ACB
RMC
SRC
NRC
CSR
SCBMF
CSC
ITDSC
ADAM
COWTD
ESG
RC
Chairperson Member
With reference to the RBI guidelines on ‘corporate governance in Banks – appointment of directors and constitution
of Committees of the Board, dated 26 April, 2021 and other applicable RBI guidelines, Girish Paranjpe, Independent
Director is a common member between the RMC and the NRC. The above common membership is in compliance with
the RBI guidelines.
Brief description of charter of the Committees, their composition and attendance of the members at the meetings held
during fiscal 2025, are detailed as under:
1. Committee of Directors
Composition and Attendance
The Committee of Directors (“COD”) comprises of four Directors out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
P. N. Prasad Chairman 13/13
Rajiv Anand Member 12/13*
CH SS Mallikarjunarao Member 13/13
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Member 13/13
* Leave of absence was granted to Rajiv Anand from attending the meeting since he was on annual mandatory leave.
Quorum
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the COD, whichever is higher, with presence of atleast two
Independent Directors.
287
Statutory reports
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Review loans sanctioned by Senior Management Committee, provide approvals for loans as per the limits
stipulated in the corporate credit policy of the Bank, as amended from time to time, and to discuss strategic
issues in relation to credit policy and review the quality of the credit portfolio of the Bank.
(b) Monitor the exposures (both credit and investments) of the Bank and to consider and approve one time
compromise settlement proposals, in respect of loan accounts which have been written off.
(c) Approve treasury related investments and disinvestments as mentioned in the domestic investment policy,
overseas investment policy and market risk management policy of the Bank, as amended from time to time.
(d) Review, note and approve proposals relating to the Bank’s business / operations covering all its departments
and business segments.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, thirteen meetings of the COD were held on 30 April, 2024, 16 May, 2024, 27 May 2024,
20 June, 2024, 23 July, 2024, 27 August, 2024, 20 September, 2024, 23 October, 2024, 22 November, 2024,
17 December, 2024, 23 January, 2025, 18 February, 2025 and 18 March, 2025.
2. Audit Committee of the Board
Composition and Attendance
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“ACB”) comprises of five members, out of which four
are Independent Directors and one is a Non-Executive Nominee Director. The members of the ACB are financially
literate.
Name of the members Position Attendance
Girish Paranjpe Chairman 15/16*
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Member 16/16
Meena Ganesh Member 15/16#
Mini Ipe Member 16/16
Pranam Wahi Member 16/16
* Leave of absence was granted to Girish Paranjpe from attending the meeting due to a medical ailment.
# Leave of absence was granted to Meena Ganesh from attending the meeting due to other commitments.
The Company Secretary of the Bank acts as the secretary of this Committee.
Quorum
Three members and at least 2/3rd of the members attending the meeting of the ACB shall be Independent Directors.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Provide direction and to oversee the operation of the audit function.
(b) Review the internal audit system with special emphasis on its quality and effectiveness.
(c) Review the risk assessment report, risk mitigation plan, scrutiny reports issued by the RBI and any other
domestic / overseas regulators and forensic audit reports by external agencies, if any, and the status of
compliance with the same.
(d) Review the concurrent audit system of the Bank (including the appointment of concurrent auditors).
(e) Recommend to the Board, the appointment of Secretarial Auditors of the Bank.
(f) Recommend to the Board, the appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of the
Statutory Auditors of the Bank.
(g) Approve payments to Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by them.
288 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
(h) Oversee the Bank’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that
the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible.
(i) Review, with the management, the quarterly financial statements of the Bank (standalone and on a consolidated
basis, in terms of the relevant provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations) before it is recommended for the
approval of the Board.
(j) Oversee the implementation of compliance policy and group compliance policy and review the compliance
function on a half-yearly and annual basis ensuring that all compliance issues are resolved effectively.
(k) Review functioning of the whistle blower and vigilance mechanism.
(l) All related party transactions and subsequent material modifications shall require prior approval of the ACB
in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time.
(m) Review the performance of information security audit and the critical issues highlighted during the information
security audit and provide appropriate guidance to the Bank’s management.
(n) Review the status of compliance with the provisions of the share dealing code, on an annual basis and to
verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating effectively.
(o) Review and approve the appointment and removal of the Group Chief Compliance Officer (“GCCO”), Group
Chief Audit Executive (“GCAE”), Chief of Internal Vigilance (“CIV”) and / or any change in the incumbency of
GCCO, GCAE, CIV of the Bank, along with the reasons for such change.
The GCCO and GCAE of the Bank directly report to the ACB. They also meet the ACB on one-to-one basis,
without the presence of the senior management, on a quarterly basis. The Committee also meets the credit
rating agencies at least once in a year, to discuss issues including related party transactions, internal financial
control and any items, which have a bearing on rating of the instruments issued by the Bank.
The ACB discusses the key highlights of the quarterly and annual financial results of the Bank, internal financial
controls, branch audits and control findings, with the Joint Statutory Auditors, before recommending the
same to the Board, for their approval. Joint Statutory Auditors have attended the meetings of the ACB held
during fiscal 2025, for review of the quarterly / half yearly / annual financial results of the Bank.
The ACB also meets with the Joint Statutory Auditors, without the presence of any executives of the Bank.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, sixteen meetings of the ACB were held on 19 April, 2024, 24 April, 2024, 22 May, 2024,
25 June, 2024, 24 July, 2024, 26 July, 2024, 28 August, 2024, 24 September, 2024, 11 October, 2024, 17 October,
2024, 19 November, 2024, 19 December, 2024, 16 January, 2025, 31 January, 2025, 13 February, 2025 and
17 March, 2025.
3. Risk Management Committee
Composition and Attendance
The Risk Management Committee of Board of Directors of the Bank (“RMC”) comprises of five members out of
which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
G. Padmanabhan Chairman 5/5
Amitabh Chaudhry Member 5/5
Girish Paranjpe Member 5/5
Pranam Wahi Member 5/5
Munish Sharda Member 5/5
289
Statutory reports
Quorum
Three members. At least half of the members attending the meeting of the RMC shall be Independent Directors,
of which at least one member shall have professional expertise / qualification in risk management.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Framing and governing of the risk strategy and approving and reviewing the risk appetite of the Bank.
(b) Ensure that sound policies, procedures and practices are in place to manage its risks.
(c) Establishing a framework to set and monitor limits across risk categories such as credit risk, market risk,
operational risk etc. in order to ensure that the risk profile is adequately diversified.
(d) Review the risk management plan with respect to cyber security and monitor the implementation of the
measures recommended by the IT and Digital Strategy Committee of the Bank, to mitigate any risk arising
therefrom.
(e) Review the appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) of the Bank.
The CRO reports to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank. The CRO is independent of the business lines
and is actively involved in key decision-making processes that impact the risk profile of the Bank. The CRO
also meets the RMC without the presence of executives of the Bank. The Bank has a policy defining the roles
and responsibilities of the CRO, in line with the guidelines issued by the RBI.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, five meetings of the RMC were held on 19 April, 2024, 18 June, 2024, 19 July, 2024,
11 October, 2024 and 15 January, 2025.
4. Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Composition and Attendance
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“SRC”) comprises of four members
out of which two are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
CH SS Mallikarjunarao Chairman 2/2
Rajiv Anand Member 2/2
P. N. Prasad Member 2/2
Munish Sharda Member 2/2
Sandeep Poddar, Company Secretary of the Bank is appointed as the Compliance Officer in terms of Regulation 6
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. He also acts as the secretary of this Committee.
Quorum
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the SRC, whichever is higher.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Consider and resolve the grievances of the security holders of the Bank.
(b) Review of complaints received from the investors in respect of transfer / transmission of shares and
debentures of the Bank, non-receipt of annual report of the Bank, non-receipt of declared dividends and
interest on debentures, delay in receipt of new / duplicate certificates, general meetings, etc. and the status
of its redressal.
(c) Review the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
290 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
(d) Review adherence to the service standards adopted by the Bank in respect of various services being rendered
by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
(e) Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the Bank for reducing the quantum of unclaimed
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the
shareholders of the Bank.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, two meetings of SRC were held on 27 May, 2024 and 11 November, 2024.
5. Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Composition and Attendance
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“NRC”) comprises of four
members, out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
Meena Ganesh Chairperson 12/12
Girish Paranjpe Member 12/12
N. S. Vishwanathan Member 12/12
Mini Ipe Member 12/12
Quorum
Three members. At least half of the members attending the meeting of the NRC shall be Independent Directors,
of which one shall be a member of the RMC.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Evaluate efficacy of the Talent Management and Succession Planning process adopted by the Bank and
suggest suitable course of action, if any, relating to vacancies that would be required to be filled at Board,
senior management and key managerial personnel, functional head level, critical role holders on account of
retirement / resignation / expiry of term of the chairperson, the directors, senior management, key managerial
personnel, functional heads and the critical role holders.
(b) Set the goals, objectives and performance benchmarks for the Bank, Whole-Time Directors & senior
management.
(c) Review and recommend for the approval of the Board, the overall remuneration framework and associated
policies of the Bank.
(d) Review the structure, size, composition and diversity of the Board and make necessary recommendations to
the Board with regard to any changes in its composition as deemed necessary in accordance with the extant
norms and formulate and review the policy on board diversity.
(e) Carry out evaluation of performance of individual and Independent Directors, the Board as a whole
and the Committees thereof and based on the outcome of such performance evaluation, decide whether to
re-appoint the Director and assignment of additional roles, responsibilities and his/her remuneration.
(f) Consider and approve the grant of stock options to eligible employees of the Bank including the Managing
Director & CEO, other Whole-Time Directors and senior management and eligible employees of the subsidiary
companies of the Bank, in terms of the Employees Stock Option Scheme formulated and adopted by the Bank
under the relevant provisions of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations,
2021, as amended from time to time.
(g) Review adequacy and appropriateness of HR strategy of the Bank in the broader areas of code of conduct,
culture and ethics, conflict of interest, succession planning, talent management, performance management,
and remuneration and HR risk management.
291
Statutory reports
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, twelve meetings of NRC were held on 19 April, 2024, 25 April, 2024, 13 June, 2024,
11 July, 2024, 18 October, 2024, 8 November 2024, 19 December, 2024, 9 January, 2025, 31 January, 2025,
13 February, 2025, 17 March, 2025 and 22 March, 2025.
6. Special Committee of the Board of Directors for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of Frauds
Composition and attendance
The Special Committee of the Board of Directors for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of Frauds (“SCBMF”)
comprises of five members out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
Mini Ipe Chairperson 4/4
Amitabh Chaudhry Member 4/4
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Member 4/4
P. N. Prasad Member 4/4
N. S. Vishwanathan Member 3/4*
*Leave of absence was granted to N. S. Vishwanathanfrom attending the meeting due to family commitments.
Quorum
Three members with at least one being a Non-Executive Director.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Oversee the effectiveness of the fraud risk management in the Bank, including fraud monitoring and fraud
investigations and make suggestions for improvement.
(b) Review and monitor cases of frauds, including root cause analysis, efficacy of the remedial action taken to
prevent recurrence and suggest mitigating measures for strengthening the internal controls, risk management
framework and minimising the incidence of frauds.
(c) Review the cases remaining in red-flagged status beyond 180 days together with adequate reasoning /
justification thereof.
(d) Identify the reasons for delay, in detection and classification and / or reporting, if any, of frauds to top
management of the Bank and the RBI.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of SCBMF were held on 13 June, 2024, 11 September, 2024, 11 December, 2024
and 5 March, 2025.
7. Customer Service Committee
Composition and attendance
The Customer Service Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“CSC”) comprises of five members out of
which two are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
P. N. Prasad Chairman 4/4
G. Padmanabhan Member 4/4
Amitabh Chaudhry Member 3/4*
Mini Ipe Member 4/4
Subrat Mohanty Member 4/4
*Leave of absence was granted to Amitabh Chaudhry from attending the meeting due to other commitments.
292 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Quorum
Three members or 1/3rd of total strength of the CSC, whichever is higher, out of which at least one member shall
be an Independent Director of the Bank.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Oversee the functioning of various customer sub-Committees at the Bank.
(b) Review thematic feedback from Branch Level Customer Service meetings.
(c) Review customer feedback received during Standing Committee on Customer Service and customer metrics
that were reviewed.
(d) Review complaints and quality of service provided by the Bank & it’s subsidiaries to ensure a robust grievance
redressal mechanism.
(e) Review of customer service policies annually and / or adopt new policies based on the RBI directives.
(f) Review progress on other regulatory matters.
(g) Review any specific directive received from the RBI and status of implementation.
(h) Review the initiatives taken by the Bank to enhance customer experience.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of the CSC were held on 6 June, 2024, 5 September, 2024, 16 December, 2024
and 12 March, 2025.
8. IT and Digital Strategy Committee
Composition and attendance
The IT and Digital Strategy Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“ITDSC”) comprises of five members
out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
CH SS Mallikarjunarao Chairman 5/5
G. Padmanabhan Member 5/5
Girish Paranjpe Member 5/5
Amitabh Chaudhry Member 5/5
Subrat Mohanty Member 5/5
Quorum
Three members or 1/3rd of total strength of ITDSC, whichever is higher.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Approving IT strategy and policies and ensuring that IT strategy is aligned with business strategy.
(b) Review of IT and cyber security incidents / frauds.
(c) Assessing if IT architecture has been designed to derive maximum business value from IT.
(d) Ensure that the Bank has put in place processes for assessing and managing IT and cybersecurity risks.
(e) Exercise oversight to ensure effective functioning of the IT Operations of the Bank.
(f) Review on an annual basis, the Business Continuity Plan (“BCP”) / Disaster Recovery (“DR”) Plan of the Bank
and exercise oversight over the efficacy of the BCP / DR process adopted by the Bank and recommend
measures for its improvement.
(g) Review the progress made by the Bank on the digital banking front.
293
Statutory reports
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, five meetings of ITDSC were held on 6 June, 2024, 4 July, 2024, 5 September, 2024,
6 December, 2024 and 12 March, 2025.
9. Corporate Social Responsibility
Composition and attendance
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“CSR Committee”) comprises
of five members out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Designation Attendance
N. S. Vishwanathan Chairman 3/4*
Rajiv Anand Member 4/4
Meena Ganesh Member 4/4
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Member 4/4
Munish Sharda Member 3/4#
*Leave of absence was granted to N. S. Vishwanathan from attending the meeting due to family commitments.
#Leave of absence was granted to Munish Sharda from attending the meeting due to other commitments.
Quorum
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the CSR Committee, whichever is higher.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Formulate and recommend to the Board, the CSR strategy, themes, focus areas and review mechanism
including the CSR policy of the Bank.
(b) Review and approve, the CSR projects / programmes to be undertaken by the Bank either directly or through
Axis Bank Foundation (“ABF”) or through implementation partners as deemed suitable, during the fiscal year
and specify modalities for its execution and implementation schedules for the same, in terms of the CSR
policy of the Bank.
(c) Review and approve the funds to be allocated for the CSR projects / programmes to be undertaken by the
Bank during the fiscal year, in terms of the CSR policy of the Bank, subject to compliance with Section 135(5)
of the Act.
(d) Review implementation of the CSR policy and annual action plan, such that the CSR project(s) / programme(s)
that are being proposed to be undertaken are aligned to the Bank’s social, environmental and economic
activities to the extent possible.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of CSR Committee were held on 18 June, 2024, 11 September, 2024,
10 December, 2024 and 7 March, 2025.
10. Review Committee
Composition and attendance
The Review Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“RC”) comprises of three members out of which two
are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
Amitabh Chaudhry Chairman 4/4
P. N. Prasad Member 4/4
CH SS Mallikarjunarao Member 4/4
294 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Quorum
Three members or 2/3rd of total strength of the RC, whichever is higher.
Brief description of the charter
(a) Consider the proposal of the Identification Committee along with the written representation received for
classification of a borrower / guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and responsible for
the management of the affairs of the entity, as a willful defaulter.
(b) To put in place a system for proper and timely classification of borrowers as willful defaulters and review the
efficacy of the said system, at-least on an annual basis.
(c) The accounts of borrowers who have been classified as willful defaulters shall be reviewed by the RC at-least
on a half-yearly basis and a report thereon shall be placed before the Board, for its review and noting.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of RC were held on 27 May, 2024, 20 September, 2024, 24 December, 2024 and
18 March, 2025.
11. Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers Committee
Composition and attendance
The Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“ADAM”) comprises
of five members out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members Position Attendance
N. S. Vishwanathan Chairman 2/2
Amitabh Chaudhry Member 1/2*
Meena Ganesh Member 2/2
Subrat Mohanty Member 2/2
Pranam Wahi Member 2/2
*Leave of absence was granted to Amitabh Chaudhry from attending the meeting due to other commitments.
Quorum
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the ADAM, whichever is higher.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) The objective of the Committee is to consider any proposals relating to mergers, acquisitions and strategic
investments and divestments and recommend / approve them in terms of the charter.
(b) Business takeover / acquisition (as distinct from the normal purchase of loans / investment portfolios,
purchase of assets, etc.)
(c) Strategic investments: acquisition of greater than 25% stake in a company or acquisition of stake in a company
where the proportion is 25% or lower but where the Bank intends to have management participation.
Equity / Equity linked investment in a Company / LLP / entity / body corporates (other than in Subsidiary
/ group entity(ies)) if the overall amount is in excess of `500 crores in one or more tranche. Equity / Equity
linked investment in Subsidiary Company / group entity(ies) (existing or proposed) if the proposed investment
amount is in excess of `500 crores per transaction.
(d) Strategic divestments: Sale of an existing business of the Bank (as distinct from the sale of assets in the
normal course of business, sale to ARCs and fixed assets). Sale of greater than 25% stake in a Company
/Limited Liability Partnership (“LLP”) / entity / body corporates / Subsidiary Company of the Bank or
Equity / Equity linked Divestment in a Company / LLP / entity / body corporates / Subsidiary Company if
the amount of disinvestment is in excess of `500 crores per transaction or Sale of less than 25% stake in a
Company / LLP / entity / body corporates / Subsidiary Company of the Bank but where the Bank intends to
give-up management participation which was earlier approved by the Committee.
295
Statutory reports
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, two meetings of ADAM were held on 19 June, 2024 and 18 December 2024.
12. Committee of Whole-Time Directors
Composition and attendance
The Committee of Whole-Time Directors of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“COWTD”) comprises of four
members.
Name of the members Position Attendance
Amitabh Chaudhry Chairman 12/12
Rajiv Anand Member 10/12*
Subrat Mohanty Member 12/12
Munish Sharda Member 12/12
* Leave of absence was granted to Rajiv Anand from attending the meetings due to family commitments.
Quorum
If the COWTD consists of three or less members, 100% of the strength of the COWTD. If the COWTD consists of
more than three members, three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the COWTD, whichever is higher.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Issuance of general / special power of attorney to various officials of the Bank and the subsidiary companies
of the Bank to do such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be considered necessary or appropriate for and
on behalf of the Bank.
(b) Approve the allotment of equity shares pursuant to exercise of stock option / unit by eligible employees /
Directors of the Bank and that of its subsidiary companies, in terms of the relevant employee stock option
scheme(s) of the Bank.
(c) Approve the allotment of debt securities issued by the Bank, including, but not limited to long term bonds,
green bonds, non-convertible debentures (“NCDs”), perpetual debt instruments, Tier II capital bonds or such
other debt securities as may be permitted under the RBI guidelines.
(d) Discuss matters, inter alia, relating to the operations, strategies, business opportunities relating to the Bank
and / or that of its subsidiaries.
(e) Approve strategic and other investments and divestments up to `500 crores in a Company / LLP / entity /
body corporates in one more or tranche.
(f) Review and approve any proposals on investment and divestments in the share capital of the existing /
proposed subsidiary / group entity(ies) upto `500 crores per transaction.
(g) Any other matter as may be authorised by the Board / Committees or required to be done pursuant to any
laws, rules, regulations or any internal policies of the Bank.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, twelve meetings of COWTD were held on 22 April, 2024, 21 May, 2024, 24 June, 2024,
15 July, 2024, 19 August, 2024, 23 September, 2024, 16 October, 2024, 27 November, 2024, 16 December, 2024,
13 January, 2025, 20 February, 2025 and 24 March, 2025.
13. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee
Composition and attendance
The Environmental, Social and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors Bank (“ESG”) comprises of three
members out of which two are Independent Directors.
296 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Name of the members Position Attendance
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Chairman 4/4
Amitabh Chaudhry Member 4/4
G. Padmanabhan Member 4/4
Quorum
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the ESG Committee, whichever is higher.
Brief description of the Charter
(a) Guide and assist in setting the Bank’s general strategy with respect to ESG matters.
(b) Consider and bring to the attention of the Board and / or management, current, and emerging ESG topics that
may be material to the Bank or its stakeholders.
(c) To take note and advise the Board or management, as appropriate, on any significant stakeholder concerns
relating to ESG matters.
(d) Review the Bank’s ESG-aligned strategy, policies, practices, and disclosures for consistency with respect to
applicable regulations.
(e) Advise and assist the management in the adoption of ESG performance metrics, targets, and other such
commitments, and monitor the Bank’s progress.
Meetings
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of the ESG Committee were held on 10 June, 2024, 19 September, 2024,
5 December, 2024 and 11 March, 2025.
Management Committee
The Management Committee (“MANCOM”) has been constituted as part of the governance and administrative
structure of the Bank. The MANCOM comprises of the Managing Director & CEO, Deputy MD, Executive Directors
and group executives, head – human resources, other senior leaders, as appointed from time to time.
The MANCOM meets regularly to review matters, inter alia, relating to business strategy & business performance,
financial reports & integrity, risk, compliance, customer experience & marketing, financial inclusion, human capital
and any other matters considered important by the Committee including those specified under various policies of
the Bank.
Separate meeting of Independent Directors
During fiscal 2025, the Independent Directors of the Bank met on 24 April, 2024, 24 July, 2024, 17 October 2024
and 16 January, 2025, without the presence of Whole-Time Directors and other members of management. During
these meetings, the Independent Directors discussed various performance, operational and governance aspects
of the Bank and Board performance evaluation.
Thereafter, the Independent Directors at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025, discussed the report of the Board
performance evaluation exercise for fiscal 2025 and evaluated the performance of the Non-Independent Directors,
the Board as a whole and the Chairperson of the Bank and assessed the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of
information between the management and the Board, in accordance with Para VII to Schedule IV of the Act.
V. Board Performance Evaluation
The Bank believes that the annual performance evaluation of the Board plays a vital role in enhancing the Board’s
effectiveness. The performance evaluation of Board, its Committees, Chairperson and individual Directors was done in
compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
297
Statutory reports
The NRC finalized the parameters, methodology and mechanism for conducting the Board performance evaluation
for fiscal 2025. The questionnaire related to Board evaluation was reviewed and finalised and then structured online
questionnaires were deployed for the said evaluation. To enhance objectivity and ensure confidentiality an independent
external agency was engaged to conduct the performance evaluation through an online tool thereby ensuring a seamless
execution and facilitating a candid participation of every Director.
The independent external agency also had one-on one discussion with all the Directors with respect to their response
to the questionnaire.
Board Evaluation
The Board was evaluated on parameters such as governance, strategic planning, audit and compliance, identification
and management of risks, human resource, Board’s relationship with executive management, customer grievance /
protection, financial inclusion, Board functioning, induction and professional development and flow of information.
Committee Evaluation
All the 13 Board Committees were individually evaluated on a common questionnaire as well as tailored depending
upon the mandate of each Committee. The Committees were evaluated based on criteria such as composition and
quality (qualifications, skills, experience and knowledge of members), discharge of responsibilities as mentioned in the
terms of reference of the Committee, planning of meetings to ensure adequate time is provided for significant and
emerging items, independent functioning of Committee, comprehensiveness of agenda papers and minutes, quality
of deliberation and discussion at meetings, contribution of members, action taken reports, communication between
Committee members and management, directions and instructions provided by the Committee resulting in major
improvements in the Bank’s functioning, etc.
Chairperson Evaluation
Chairperson performance evaluation was based on parameters covering open-mindedness, decisiveness,
professionalism, courtesy extended to other members and ability to steer the meetings and discussions, impartiality,
encouraging dissent, facilitating consensus building, knowledge of the industry complexity and surfacing issues of
strategic importance.
Individual Directors
Individual Director’s effectiveness was based on parameters such as knowledge and expertise, active participation and
contribution during meetings, regularity and punctuality in attending meetings, preparation for meetings and keeping
oneself abreast of matters, collaborative relationship with other Directors, leadership, openness to others’ input and
acceptance of constructive feedback, uninhibited participation in meetings and willingness to bring forth their insights
and integrity.
Outcome of Evaluation
The outcome of the said performance evaluation was reviewed by the NRC at its meeting held on 23 April, 2025 and by
the Independent Directors at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025. The Board also reviewed the performance evaluation
report, outcome and action areas at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025.
The disclosure in terms of SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2018/79 dated 10 May, 2018, on ‘Board
evaluation’, is detailed as under:
1. Observations of Board evaluation carried out for the year: Eight observations emanated from the Board
performance evaluation for fiscal 2025, which are detailed as under:
(a) Making the agenda notes for Board and Committees concise without compromising on the material
information for better prioritization and focussed discussions.
(b) Issues such as strategic oversight on business performance, market trends and underperforming areas, be
given priority.
(c) Focus and identify issues in enhancing financial inclusion and not just priority sector lending.
298 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
(d) Drive programs to enhance risk and compliance culture across all levels and explore advanced tech tools and
AI for early detection in fraud-prone areas.
(e) CSR Committee to consider periodic site visits to assess on-ground effectiveness of CSR efforts.
(f) Focus on grievance handling to reduce escalations to internal ombudsmen.
(g) Integrate ESG and climate agenda into long-term strategy.
(h) Common agenda items being placed to multiple Board Committees that oversee assurance functions be
discussed in a joint meeting which is attended by the members of all those Committees.
2. Previous year’s observations and actions taken: Six observations had emanated from the Board performance
evaluation for fiscal 2024. These related to:
(a) Update the Board on current areas of focus and measures taken to improve customer service and contain
customer grievances.
(b) Co-opting an expert who can be a special invitee to the meetings of the ESG Committee.
(c) Plan for additional bespoke programme for Directors, based on their feedback.
(d) Update the Board on measures taken to move the needle on the financial inclusion in a more substantive
manner.
(e) Improve quality of agenda papers to make them more concise without missing the important details.
(f) Institute feedback mechanism to apprise the Board on the progress made on the areas for improvement
identified by the Board.
The Bank has complied with the said observations, which have been reviewed by the NRC and the Board.
3. Proposed actions based on current year observations: The Bank has accepted all the observations made by the
Board emanating from the Board performance evaluation for fiscal 2025. The status of compliance with the said
observations will be reviewed by the NRC and the Board during the course of fiscal 2026.
VI. Remuneration Policy
The Bank’s remuneration practices are underpinned by principles of meritocracy and fairness. The Bank strives to
maintain strong focus in the areas of compensation governance and ensures the compensation systems are in line with
emerging compensation regulations as applicable. The remuneration system strives to maintain the ability to attract,
retain, reward and motivate talent in order to enable the Bank to attain its strategic objectives within the increasingly
competitive context in which it operates. The Bank’s pay-for-performance approach strives to ensure that both internal
and external equity are in line with the emerging market trends.
The Bank has formulated and adopted a remuneration policy for Non-Executive Chairperson and Non-Executive
Directors of the Bank which provides guidelines for payment of remuneration to the Non-Executive Chairperson and
Non-Executive Directors of the Bank.
The Bank has also formulated a remuneration policy for Managing Director & CEO, Whole-Time Directors, material
risk takers, control function staff and other employees of the Bank, in terms of the provisions of the Act, SEBI Listing
Regulations and ‘Guidelines on compensation of whole-time directors / chief executive officers / material risk takers and
control function staff’ issued by the RBI on 4 November, 2019. This remuneration policy, inter alia, contains guidelines
relating to compensation structure consisting of fixed pay, variable pay, employee stock options, compensation
revision cycle and framework regarding malus / clawback. During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved
amendments to both the policies, in line with the extant laws.
The above policies are available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
corporate-governance.
The remuneration paid to all the employees / Managing Director & CEO / Deputy MD / Whole-Time Directors of the
Bank, for fiscal 2025, is in accordance with the aforesaid remuneration policy.
299
Statutory reports
VII. Remuneration of Directors
A. Executive / Whole-Time Directors
The details of remuneration paid to Managing Director & CEO, Deputy MD and Executive Directors during fiscal
2025, is as under:
(in ` )
Particulars Amitabh Chaudhry Rajiv Anand Subrat Mohanty Munish Sharda
Salary (Basic) 4,77,01,380 2,97,58,152 2,34,33,360 2,34,33,360
Leave fare concession facility 9,99,996 5,49,996 6,81,996 5,49,996
House rent allowance 1,32,50,388 98,20,188 77,33,004 77,33,004
Variable pay (2023-24) 1,04,73,530 1,19,50,935 97,79,815 93,45,421
Variable pay (2022-23) 33,00,000 37,12,500 27,43,291 31,49,981
Variable pay (2021-22) 31,68,000 35,31,000 19,24,525 12,36,204
Variable pay (2020-21) 30,26,000 20,04,652 8,47,670 -
Superannuation allowance / fund 47,70,138 29,75,816 23,43,337 22,07,646
Utility allowance 3,75,000 1,32,000 1,32,000 1,32,000
Perquisites* (excluding ESOP) 40,71,553 34,17,412 24,67,190 40,02,575
Unutilised car benefit - 2,75,919 11,66,389 1,68,332
Provident fund (Bank’s Contribution) 12% of Basic 12% of Basic 12% of Basic 12% of Basic
Gratuity One month’s salary One month’s salary One month’s salary One month’s salary
for each completed for each completed for each completed for each completed
year of service year of service year of service year of service
* Perquisites (evaluated as per Income Tax Rules, 1962, wherever applicable, or otherwise at actual cost to the Bank) such as Bank’s
furnished accommodation, electricity, water and furnishings, club fees, personal accident insurance, loans, use of car and telephone
at residence, medical reimbursement, travelling and halting allowances, newspapers and periodicals and others were provided in
accordance with the Rules of the Bank.
1. Amitabh Chaudhry and Rajiv Anand were granted 2,59,429 and 1,83,381 stock options respectively for fiscal
2024. Subrat Mohanty and Munish Sharda were granted 97,996 and 13,157 stock options respectively for
fiscal 2024 for their tenure as Executive Directors. The approval for the grants were received from the RBI in
fiscal 2025.
The stock options were granted at `1,063.25 per share which was the closing market price prevailing on the
day prior to the date of grant on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (the “NSE’’).
The vesting schedule for the said stock options is spread over 4 (four) years @ 25% every year (commencing
on expiry of one year from the date of grant).
2. The Bank as a policy, does not pay any severance fees to its Whole-Time Directors. The tenure of the office
of Whole-Time Directors is for a period of three years from the date of their respective appointment /
re-appointment, as approved by the RBI and the same can be terminated by either party by giving three
months’ notice in writing. The termination of services shall be in compliance with the provisions of Section 35B
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
3. The Whole-Time Directors of the Bank are not entitled to receive any sitting fees from the Bank or from its
subsidiary companies, for attending meetings of the Board and its Committees. Further, they do not receive
any remuneration from any of the subsidiary companies of the Bank.
4. The proposals for revision in remuneration of Amitabh Chaudhry, Rajiv Anand, Subrat Mohanty and Munish
Sharda were approved by the shareholders of the Bank at the 30th AGM. All the proposals were passed as
ordinary resolutions which received 99.20% of votes in favour of the proposal.
300 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
B. Independent / Nominee Directors
The remuneration framework for the Independent and Nominee Directors of the Bank has been meticulously
structured to ensure compliance with regulatory standards and to recognize the vital contribution of these
Directors towards the governance and strategic direction of the Bank.
Sitting Fees Structure: All the Independent and Nominee Directors of the Bank were paid sitting fees of `100,000
for every meeting of the Board, NRC, ACB, COD, RMC and ITDSC attended by them. In respect of meetings of
other Committees of the Board, they were paid sitting fees of `75,000 for every meeting attended by them.
Further, all the Independent Directors of the Bank were paid sitting fees of `100,000 for attending every meeting
of the Independent Directors. The Board at its meeting held on 22 March, 2025 has increased the sitting fees in
respect of attending the CSC meeting from `75,000 to `1,00,000 per meeting with effect from 1 April, 2025.
Fixed Remuneration: In accordance with the RBI circular dated 9 February, 2024 on ‘review of fixed
remuneration granted to Non-Executive Directors (NEDs)’, as amended from time to time, the Bank paid fixed
remuneration to its Non-Executive Directors (except the Independent Part-Time Chairman) not exceeding
`30 lakhs per annum per Director.
Reimbursements and other Entitlements: All Directors are eligible for reimbursement of expenses incurred while
performing their duties. The Bank does not grant stock options to its Independent or Nominee Directors.
Non-Executive Part-Time Chairman: In addition to sitting fees and remuneration, N. S. Vishwanathan,
Non-Executive Part-Time Chairman, is entitled to use of Bank’s car for official and private purposes, travel, stay
and other expenses for official purposes.
Payment of Remuneration to Non-Executive (Nominee of LIC, Promoter) Director: The sitting fees to Mini Ipe
was paid to her, whereas fixed remuneration was paid to LIC, as per advice from LIC.
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions of Non-Executive Directors vis-a-vis the Bank (except
banking transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis) during fiscal 2025.
The details of the remuneration paid to Independent Directors and Nominee Director during fiscal 2025, are as
under:
(in `)
Sr. Fixed
Name of the Directors Designation Sitting Fees
No. Remuneration
1. N. S. Vishwanathan Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman 31,00,000 35,00,000
2. Girish Paranjpe Independent Director 50,00,000 27,00,000
3. Meena Ganesh Independent Director 44,50,000 27,00,000
4. G. Padmanabhan Independent Director 29,00,000 27,00,000
5. Prof. S. Mahendra Dev Independent Director 51,00,000 27,00,000
6 P. N. Prasad Independent Director 36,50,000 27,00,000
7. CH SS Mallikarjunarao Independent Director 35,50,000 27,00,000
8. Mini Ipe Non-Executive Nominee Director 43,00,000 27,00,000
9. Pranam Wahi Independent Director 35,50,000 25,00,000
Total 3,56,00,000 2,49,00,000
VIII. Fees paid to Statutory Auditors
The details of fees for all services availed by the Bank and its subsidiary companies, on a consolidated basis, from the
Joint Statutory Auditors, M/s. M P Chitale & Co. and M/s. C N K & Associates LLP (whose term ended at the conclusion
of the 30th AGM held on 26 July, 2024) and Joint Statutory Auditors, M/s. M M Nissim & Co. LLP and M/s. KKC &
Associates LLP (appointed at the 30th AGM held on 26 July 2024) and all entities in the network firm / network entity
of which the aforesaid Joint Statutory Auditors are part thereof, during fiscal 2025, is as under:
301
Statutory reports
(in `)
Sr.
Particulars Amount1
No.
1. Audit Fees 3,76,25,000
2. Fees for certification and other attest services2 1,35,70,050
3. Non Audit Fees -
Total 5,11,95,050
1 The fees excludes taxes, clerkage fees and out of pocket expenses.
2 The services of the Statutory Auditors have been obtained during the normal course of business for compliance with statutes and the
guidelines of various regulators like SEBI, RBI etc. which specifically require the statutory auditor to undertake these activities and are not
in the nature of management assurance.
3 M/s. C N K & Associates LLP, one of the Joint Statutory Auditors (whose term ended at the conclusion of the 30th AGM held on 26 July
2024), was appointed as the Statutory Auditor of Axis Trustee Services Limited, which is a subsidiary of the Bank, for a period of 5 years
commencing from fiscal 2025. The aforementioned fee includes fees paid by Axis Trustee Services Limited to M/s. C N K & Associates LLP
for audit services provided in Q1FY25. Other than the aforementioned, no services have been availed by the subsidiaries of the Bank from
any of the Joint Statutory Auditors.
4 The said fees have been reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee of the Bank / Board of the subsidiary as applicable.
IX. Details of utilisation of funds raised through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutional Placement
During the year, the Bank has not raised any funds through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement
of equity shares pursuant to Regulation 32 (7A) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
X. D isclosure in terms of the sexual harassment of women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on prevention of sexual harassment at workplace (“the policy”) and
takes all necessary measures to ensure a harassment-free workplace. The Bank believes that all employees, including
other individuals who are dealing with the Bank have the right to be treated with dignity. The abridged version of
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace policy is available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
A Central Internal Committee (“CIC”) has been instituted for redressal of complaints and to prevent sexual harassment.
Additionally, four Regional Internal Committees (“RIC”) have been constituted to facilitate investigations at four regions
(north, south, east and west) of the Bank.
The CIC is empowered to take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee(s) who is found to have violated the
norms prescribed under the said policy.
The following is the summary of sexual harassment complaints received and disposed of by the Bank, during fiscal
2025:
Particulars No. of Complaints
Number of complaints pending at the start of the fiscal year 8
Number of complaints of sexual harassment filed during the fiscal year 54
Number of complaints disposed off during the fiscal year 50
Number of complaints pending as on the end of the fiscal year 12
Number of workshops / awareness programmes conducted against sexual harassment: 33.
Nature of action taken by the Employer or District Officer: As per the Bank’s Code of Conduct & Ethics.
XI. Employee Accidental Deaths
During fiscal 2025, there were no instances of employee accidents or accidental death at workplace.
302 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
XII. Whistleblower Policy & Vigil Mechanism
The Whistleblower channel provides a secure way for employees to escalate concerns regarding any non-compliance /
violations in the Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics which includes non-adherence to laid down guidelines of the Bank,
conflict of interest, fraud, misuse of delegated powers, misappropriation, any form of corruption, data leakage, etc.
This Whistleblower Policy gives Whistleblower(s) a platform to report their concerns / grievances without fear of
retribution or vengeful action from the persons against whom the Protected Disclosure was submitted, in addition to
providing for requisite actions to be taken on a Protected Disclosure being received by the Bank.
Complete protection is given to the Whistleblower against retaliation or retribution consequent upon his/her having
reported a Protected Disclosure. In the event the Whistleblower experiences any such incidents, the Whistleblower
should immediately report the same as specified in whistleblower policy. The Bank will take steps to minimize difficulties
that a Whistleblower may face in the submission of a Protected Disclosure. If the offences are committed by senior
management, the policy enables the Banks staff to request concerns to the ACB.
The Bank’s policy meets the requirements with all the applicable rules and regulations, including (a) Act (b) SEBI
Listing Regulations (c) the RBI scheme on ‘Protected Disclosures Scheme for Private Sector and Foreign Banks, and
(d) RBI Master Directions on Fraud Risk Management in Commercial Banks (including Regional Rural Banks) and All
India Financial Institutions.
To ensure smooth flow and management of complaints under the policy, a web-based application -‘https://whistleblower.
axisbank.co.in’ is available for filing protected disclosures, including anonymous whistleblower complaints containing
specific and verifiable information, without fear of revelation of identity. The policy contains provisions for protecting
whistleblowers from any unfair action prejudicial to their interest.
The Bank has not denied access to any of its employees to the Chairman of the ACB and that the policy contains
adequate provisions for protecting whistleblowers from unfair termination and other unfair prejudicial and employment
practices.
A quarterly report on the findings under the said Policy is submitted to the ACB for information.
Total whistleblower complaints received by the Bank in fiscal 2025: 673.
No. of whistleblower complaints pending resolution as on 31 March, 2025: 360.
The details of the abridged version of whistleblower policy are available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.
com/webforms/code-of-commitment and https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
XIII. Subsidiary Companies
As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank does not have any unlisted Indian subsidiary company, which could be deemed to be a
material subsidiary, in terms of Regulation 16(1)(c) read with Regulation 24(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. All matters
relating to subsidiary governance is overseen by the Board and Board Committees and operationalized under the aegis
of Subsidiary Governance Committee (”SGC”) of the Bank. The SGC meets as and when required and at least once every
quarter.
The minutes of the meetings of the Board of all unlisted subsidiary companies of the Bank are tabled at the meetings
of the Board of the Bank. The minutes of the meetings of the ACB of unlisted subsidiary companies of the Bank are
tabled at the meetings of the ACB of the Bank. A snapshot of the customer complaints which are received by subsidiary
companies of the Bank along with the remedial measures are placed before CSC of the Board of the Bank.
ACB reviews the investments made by subsidiaries. Further, it also evaluates the statement of all significant transactions
and arrangements entered by subsidiary companies and the compliances of each materially significant subsidiary on a
periodic basis.
303
Statutory reports
The RBI has identified Axis Group as a Financial Conglomerate (“FC”) under the Inter Regulatory Forum (“IRF”)
mechanism which necessitates continuous oversight on subsidiary companies. The oversight on Bank’s subsidiaries is
an essential element for the implementation of well aligned corporate governance principles across group entities. It
assists in integration of “One Axis” theme of the Bank, by sharing uniform practices across the Group and building up
synergy in common practices thereby creating value and investor confidence.
The Bank has put in place a comprehensive subsidiary engagement framework encompassing functional alignment in
multiple areas viz. Risk, Compliance, Audit, Finance, Corporate Secretarial, Human Resources, Information Technology
and Legal as well as more integrative domains viz. Cyber Security, Brand Usage and Marketing, Corporate Communication
and Ethics with the end objective of delivering ‘One Axis’ across the Group.
XIV. Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries
As required under Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has formulated and adopted a policy
for determining material subsidiaries (the “policy”). During the year, the policy for determining material subsidiaries
has been reviewed by the RMC and the Board. The same policy has been hosted on the website of the Bank at
https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
XV. Directors and Officers Insurance
The Bank has a Directors and Officers Insurance policy in place which protects the Directors and Officers of the Bank
from any claims for any actual or alleged breach of their fiduciary duties.
XVI. Insider Trading
The Bank has a share dealing code and the code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price
sensitive information (“UPSI”) of the Bank, in line with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015
(the “Insider Trading Regulations”), as amended from time to time.
The share dealing code of the Bank comprises of Chapter A which is applicable to ‘designated persons’ and their
immediate relatives for trading in securities of the Bank and Chapter B which is applicable to ‘persons designated for
restricted list’ and their immediate relatives for trading in securities of Listed Client Companies (“LCC”).
The Bank in the ordinary course of its business, is likely to be entrusted with UPSI by LCC, hence it is expected to
discharge its fiduciary obligations by maintaining confidentiality of such UPSI, in the interest of such LCC, and in
compliance with the Insider Trading Regulations. The Compliance Officer has taken necessary steps to restrict the
persons designated under restricted list from trading in securities of such LCCs.
The Bank has adequate and effective systems, internal controls and processes, to ensure compliance with the provisions
of the share dealing code, the code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of UPSI and the Insider Trading
Regulations. The Bank conducts awareness programmes and circulates Do’s and Dont’s, for the designated persons,
from time to time. During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved amendments to the said codes, in line with
the extant laws.
The Compliance Officer of the Bank provides violation reports to the ACB on a quarterly basis. On an annual basis,
ACB reviews the compliance with the provisions of Insider Trading Regulations and verifies that the systems for internal
control are adequate and are operating effectively.
The Bank has also formulated and adopted the policy for determination of materiality of events / information of the
Bank, in terms of Regulation 30 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. During fiscal 2025, the Board reviewed and approved
the amendments to the policy, in line with the extant laws. The policy for determination of materiality of events /
information and the code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of UPSI of the Bank have been uploaded
on the website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance in compliance with the said
Regulations.
304 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
XVII. C ompliance Certificate
Pursuant to Regulation 17(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a quarterly confirmation on laws applicable to the Bank
is obtained from the relevant heads of departments by the compliance department. A report duly signed by the
Chief Compliance Officer of the Bank confirming compliances with applicable laws, is placed before the ACB and the
Board on a quarterly basis.
XVIII. CEO & CFO Certification
A certificate issued by Amitabh Chaudhry, Managing Director & CEO, and Puneet Sharma, Group Executive & Chief
Financial Officer of the Bank, for the fiscal 2025, was placed before the Board at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025, in
terms of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The said certificate is attached as Annexure 1 to this report.
XIX. Directors E-KYC
T he Ministry of Corporate Affairs (the “MCA”) has vide amendment to the Companies (Appointment and Qualification
of Directors) Rules, 2014, mandated registration of KYC of all the Directors through e-form DIR-3 KYC. All Directors
of the Bank have complied with the aforesaid requirement.
XX. Other Disclosures
Related Party Transactions
All related party transactions (“RPTs”) and subsequent modifications, if any, thereto are placed before the ACB for
review and approval. Prior omnibus approval is obtained for RPTs for transactions which are of repetitive nature and
entered in the ordinary course of business and are at arm’s length. RPTs executed pursuant to requisite approvals, are
reviewed on a quarterly basis.
During fiscal 2025, the Bank has not entered into any materially significant transactions with its related parties which
could lead to potential conflict of interest between the Bank and these parties, other than transactions entered into
with them in the ordinary course of its business.
The policy on related party transactions is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
Particulars of Senior Management
As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank had following senior management personnel as defined under Regulation 16(1)(d) of
the SEBI Listing Regulations:
Sr
Name Designation
No.
1 Prashant Joshi Group Executive & Chief Credit Officer
2 Neeraj Gambhir Group Executive - Treasury & Markets and Wholesale Banking Products
3 Puneet Mahendra Sharma Group Executive & Chief Financial Officer
4 Arjun Chowdhry Group Executive – Affluent Banking, Retail Lending, NRI, Cards & Payments
5 Vijay Krishna Mulbagal Group Executive – Strategic Programs & Sustainability
6 Amit Talgeri Chief Risk Officer
7 Bimal Bhattacharyya Interim Chief Audit Executive
8 Anuranjan Kumar Chief Compliance Officer
9 Rajkamal Vempati President - Human Resources
10 Sandeep Poddar Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
305
Statutory reports
Changes in Senior Management
During fiscal 2025, following were the changes in the senior management personnel of the Bank:
Sr. No. Name of Employee Designation Date of change Type of change
1 Bimal Bhattacharyya Chief Compliance Officer 13 June, 2024 Cessation
2 Anuranjan Kumar Chief Compliance Officer 14 June, 2024 Appointment
3 Sumit Bali Group Executive 16 August, 2024 Cessation
4 Ganesh Sankaran Group Executive 30 November, 2024 Cessation
5 S. Bhaskar Chief Audit Executive 3 February, 2025 Appointment
6 Vineet Agrawal Chief Audit Executive 3 February, 2025 Cessation
7 S. Bhaskar Chief Audit Executive 13 February, 2025 Cessation
8 Bimal Bhattacharyya Interim Chief Audit Executive 14 February, 2025 Appointment
Transactions of Senior Management
The members of the senior management of the Bank have affirmed that they have not entered into any material,
financial or commercial transaction wherein they have personal interest and which may potentially conflict with the
interest of the Bank at large.
Instances of Non-Compliance
There were no instances of non-compliance by the Bank or penalties and strictures imposed by the stock exchange(s)
or SEBI or other statutory authorities on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years, except the
following:
(i) SEBI had carried out inspection of the Designated Depository Participant (“DDP”) activities of the Bank for fiscal
2021. During the inspection, SEBI observed that the designated Compliance Officer was undertaking operational
activity by acting as a checker, there was no employee other than the Compliance Officer for carrying out DDP
operations from April 2021 to June 2021. SEBI also observed that there were discrepancy in the report of DDP
and NSDL, operational manual was not updated, KYC review was not done for two clients and fees were collected
from FPI prior to receipt of application. In view of the above, SEBI issued an administrative warning on 9 March,
2023, which was received by the Bank on 21 April, 2023. The Bank has taken corrective actions and submitted its
response to SEBI on 27 April, 2023.
(ii) SEBI carried out inspection of the Custodian activities of the Bank for fiscal 2022 and issued administrative
warning on 28 August, 2023 based on the observations made during the inspection. The Bank has taken necessary
actions and submitted its response to SEBI on 12 September, 2023.
(iii) SEBI has issued letter dated 4 February, 2025 to Bank as a DDP on advisory on timely submission of reports
through SEBI Intermediary Portal. There were 2 (two) instances of delay in filing of report on SEBI SI portal as
mentioned in SEBI advisory letter. In both the instances initial report filing was done by CCMO / DDP Team
within the SEBI specified deadline on SEBI SI Portal. In one instance, after consultation with SEBI on approach /
criteria the report was revised and in coordination with SEBI and after re-opening of SI Portal by SEBI, the report
was refiled on SEBI portal (post due date). In another instance, based on internal audit department observation,
the report was revised and refiled on SEBI SI portal (post due date) after requesting and re-opening of SI Portal
by SEBI. While re-opening the SI Portal by SEBI in December 2024, no objections were raised by SEBI, however,
subsequently SEBI has sent letter dated 4 February 2025 advising Bank not to repeat instance of filing of periodic
reports with a delay for the month January 2025 and onwards. An additional check by way of the concurrent audit
(external auditor) has been put in place who will independently validate the report prior to filing of report on SEBI
SI Portal.
(iv) SEBI had carried our inspection of the Depository Participant (“DP”) activities of the Bank in July 2024 and issued
Deficiency Letter on 31 December, 2024 (the letter was recalled by SEBI and revised letter was received on
20 February, 2025 with same date of 31 December, 2024) based on the observations made during the inspection.
The Bank has taken necessary actions and submitted its response to SEBI on 18 March 2025.
306 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Certificate on non-disqualification of Directors
M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries, Secretarial Auditors has certified that none of the Directors of the
Bank have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a director of the Bank by SEBI / MCA
or any other statutory / regulatory authority. The said certificate is annexed to the Board’s Report.
Compliance with governance norms
The Bank is in compliance with Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D
and E and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Further, the Bank has also complied with all the mandatory
requirements, as prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to corporate governance.
Except for sending half-yearly financial results to the shareholders, the Bank has adopted all the other non-mandatory
requirements mentioned in Part E of Schedule II of SEBI Listing Regulations, detailed as under:
(i) Maintenance of Chairperson’s office at the Bank’s expense and reimbursement of expenses incurred by the
Non-Executive Chairperson in performance of his duties.
(ii) Separate post of Chairperson and Managing Director & CEO.
(iii) Regime of financial statements with unmodified audit opinion.
(iv) Chief Audit Executive directly reporting to the ACB.
(v) Holding at least two meetings of Independent Directors in a financial year, without the presence of
Non-Independent Directors and members of the management.
The Bank has obtained a certificate from its Joint Statutory Auditors, M M Nissim & Co. LLP (Registration No.
107122W/W100672), Chartered Accountants, Mumbai, confirming that the Bank has complied with the provisions of
Corporate Governance for fiscal 2025, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2)
and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations. The said certificate is annexed at the start of
this report.
The Bank has not been informed of any agreement under Regulation 30A(1) read with clause 5A of paragraph A of
Part A of Schedule III of the SEBI Listing Regulations during fiscal 2025. Accordingly there is no requirement for
disclosing the same.
Codes of Conduct
The Board has formulated and adopted the code of conduct and conflict of interest norms for the Board of Directors,
and the code of conduct and ethics of the Bank, in terms of Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to
corporate governance together referred to as the codes.
The code of conduct and ethics of the Bank reflects the Bank’s commitment to integrity and the highest standards of
ethical practices. It defines the standards of conduct that is expected of all employees in order that the right decisions
are taken in performing their roles and responsibilities across various functions in the Bank.
The code of conduct and ethics of the Bank is intended to be the charter for day-to-day work, to enable employees
to make the right decisions and, therefore, serves to (1) underline the fundamental commitment to compliance with
regulatory guidelines and laws of the land, and (2) set forth basic parameters of ethical and acceptable social behavior.
The Bank’s core values have been articulated as: customer centricity, ethics, transparency, teamwork and ownership
and these define the manner in which we deal with our stakeholders.
Every employee annually affirms to abide by the code of conduct and ethics of the Bank. Further, the aforesaid codes
require employees, including the senior management of the Bank, to maintain highest levels of professional and personal
integrity to avoid situations in which an individual’s personal interest may conflict with either the interest of the Bank or
that of its stakeholders. Prior approvals are required to be sought before accepting any position of responsibility, with
or without remuneration, in any other organisation.
307
Statutory reports
The said codes have been hosted on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
corporate-governance in compliance with the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The certificate issued by the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank confirming that all the Directors and members of
the senior management of the Bank have affirmed compliance with the said codes as applicable to them, is attached as
Annexure 2 to this report.
Compliance
The Bank has a ‘Governance Compliance Manager’ (“GCM”) system in place to track and monitor the implementation of
Regulations applicable to the Bank.
The changes in regulatory guidelines or new regulatory guidelines are tracked and updated in GCM system. These are then
disseminated along with action points to the respective units / departments for implementation.
The compliance department conducts independent assessment of status of compliance as well as compliance risk for all
the units across the Bank & reports to the ACB as well as to the Board, at regular intervals.
Sustainability
The Bank recognizes the critical importance of material aspects of ESG in creating value for all stakeholders. The
Bank was the first Indian bank to establish an ESG Committee of the Board in 2021, that enabled the Bank to bring
a myriad of ESG-aligned activities under a unified and comprehensive approach. Bank’s purpose – banking for an
equitable and inclusive economy, thriving communities, and a healthier planet – underscores its role as a responsible
financial institution. Guided by the ESG Committee, the Bank continues to focus on strengthening its business activities
aligned to the global climate action agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. The Bank has in place pertinent
policies such as the ESG policy for Lending and the Sustainable Financing Framework, among others, that provide a
strong governance oversight to its activities. The Bank continues to disclose its ESG-aligned performance in line with
international frameworks such as Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standards, Integrated Reporting (“IR”) Framework
and Taskforce on Climate-related Financial disclosures (“TCFD”) recommendations. During fiscal 2025, the Bank was
the first Indian private sector Bank to partner with IFC to provide a $500 million loan to help develop a blue finance
market and scale up financing of green projects in India.
Vendor Processes and Supplier Code of Conduct
The Bank follows a vendor onboarding policy outlining the vendor identification and selection processes. A vendor
onboarding platform is integrated on the website of the Bank that provides them with a fair opportunity to apply to the
Bank with their respective proposals. Post receipt of such proposals, the vendors are evaluated for selection based on
the principles and processes formulated.
The Bank has also formulated a ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’ (the “Code”) which aims to articulate the minimum standards
of conduct and ethical principles that the Bank expects all its suppliers to imbibe and comply with.
The Code provides for reporting of concerns by suppliers. The Bank has also developed an online mechanism for
reporting of concerns by its suppliers. With this practice, the Bank lays the foundation for building and retaining
business relationships based on ethical values to realize sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits.
308 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Annexure 1
CEO / CFO CERTIFICATION AS PER REGULATION 17(8) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATION, 2015
The Board of Directors
Axis Bank Limited
In terms of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations, we certify that:
a) We have reviewed the audited financial statements and the cash flow statement for the fiscal year ended
31 March, 2025 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
(i) These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements
that might be misleading;
(ii) These statements together present a true and fair view of the Bank’s affairs and are in compliance with existing
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b) There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions which have been entered into by the Bank during
the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Bank’s code of conduct.
c) We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Bank pertaining to financial reporting and we have
disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if
any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
d) We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee:
(i) significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
(ii) significant changes in accounting policies during the year, if any, and that the same have been disclosed in the
notes to the audited financial statements; and
(iii) instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and involvement therein, if any, of the management
or an employee having a significant role in the Bank’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Amitabh Chaudhry Puneet Sharma
Managing Director & CEO Group Executive & CFO
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April, 2025
309
Statutory reports
Annexure 2
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF CONDUCT AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST NORMS IN RESPECT OF
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS OF THE BANK, FOR THE FISCAL 2025
I confirm that for the year under review, all the directors and members of the senior management of the Bank, have affirmed
compliance with the said codes, as applicable to them.
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
Place: Mumbai
Date: 25 April, 2025
310 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
General Shareholder Information
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”)]
Contact Information
Registered Office Corporate Office Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”)
Axis Bank Limited Axis Bank Limited KFin Technologies Limited (“KFIN”)
[CIN: L65110GJ1993PLC020769] ‘Axis House’, C-2, Unit: Axis Bank Limited
‘Trishul’, 3rd Floor, Opp. Samartheshwar Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Selenium Building, Tower – B,
Temple, Law Garden, Ellisbridge, Worli, Mumbai – 400 025, Plot nos. 31 & 32,
Ahmedabad – 380 006, Maharashtra Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Gujarat Tel. no.: +91 22 2425 2525 Serilingampally, Hyderabad – 500 032,
Tel. no.: +91 79 6630 6161 Fax no.: +91 22 2425 1800 Telangana
Email: shareholders@axisbank.com Email: shareholders@axisbank.com Tel. no.: +91 40 7961 5565
Website: www.axisbank.com Website: www.axisbank.com Toll free no.: 1800 3094 001
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Debenture Trustees Depository for Global Depository Receipts
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited SBICAP Trustee Company Limited The Bank of New York Mellon
Universal Insurance Building, Ground Floor, Mistry Bhavan, 4th Floor, 240 Greenwich Street
Sir P. M Road, Fort, 122 Dinshaw Vachha Road, New York - 10286,
Mumbai – 400 001, Maharashtra Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020, United States
Tel. no.: +91 22 4080 7000; Maharashtra Tel. no.: +1 212 495 1784
+ 91 8097474599 Tel. no.: +91 22 4302 5555 Website: www.adrbnymellon.com
Fax no.: +91 22 6631 1776 Fax no.: +91 22 4302 5500
Email: itsl@idbitrustee.com Website: www.sbicaptrustee.com
Website: www.idbitrustee.com
31st Annual General Meeting (“31ST AGM”) Dividend
Day / Date / Time Friday, 25 July, 2025, 10:00 am Dividend Amount `1 per share
Mode Video Conferencing Record Date Friday, 4 July, 2025
E-voting Dates Monday, 21 July, 2025 (9:00 am) The dividend, if approved, will be paid
to Thursday, 24 July, 2025 (5:00 pm) Dividend Payment Date within 30 days from the date of the
Financial Year 1 April to 31 March 31st AGM
Meeting Calendar
Purpose Tentative Date
Unaudited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the quarter ending Third week of July, 2025
30 June, 2025
Unaudited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the quarter / half year ending Third week of October, 2025
30 September, 2025
Unaudited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the quarter / nine months ending Third week of January, 2026
31 December, 2025
Audited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the financial year ending Last week of April, 2026
31 March, 2026
311
Statutory reports
Listing on Stock Exchanges
Equity Shares
Details of Stock Exchange ISIN Stock Exchange Codes Reuters Codes Bloomberg Codes
BSE Limited INE238A01034 532215 BSE - AXBK.BO BSE – AXSB IN
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001, Maharashtra
Website: www.bseindia.com
National Stock Exchange of India Limited INE238A01034 AXISBANK NSE - AXBK.NS NSE - AXSB IS
Exchange Plaza, Plot no. C/1, G Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai - 400 051, Maharashtra
Website: www.nseindia.com
The equity shares of the Bank have not been suspended from trading on the said stock exchanges or by any regulatory or
statutory authority.
Global Depository Receipts (“GDR”) / American Depository Receipts (“ADR”)
Details of Stock Exchange Stock Exchange Code ISIN
London Stock Exchange AXB US05462W1099
10 Paternoster Square,
London, EC4M 7LS, United Kingdom
Website: www.londonstockexchange.com
1. One GDR is represented by five underlying equity shares.
2. Allotments were made in April 2005, May 2005, July 2005 and September 2009. No GDR / ADR issuances in fiscal 2025.
3. Outstanding as on 31 March, 2025: 10,30,78,770
Debt Securities
Stock Exchange Code
Description Details of Stock Exchange ISIN
BSE Code NSE Code
Non-Convertible Debt BSE Limited 959227 AXBK27 INE238A08468
Instruments in the form of Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 954048 AXBK26 INE238A08393
956607 AXBK27 INE238A08435
Tier II and Infrastructure Bonds Dalal Street,
952829 AXBK25A INE238A08377
Mumbai - 400 001, Maharashtra
952965 AXBK25 INE238A08385
Website: www.bseindia.com
955282 AXBK26 INE238A08419
974420 AXBK32 INE238A08484
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 973667 AXBK31 INE238A08476
Exchange Plaza, Plot no. C/1, G Block, 958469 AXBKB28 INE238A08450
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 975476 AXBK34 INE238A08492
975988 AXBK34 INE238A08500
Mumbai - 400 051, Maharashtra
Website: www.nseindia.com
312 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Description Details of Stock Exchange Stock Exchange Code
MTN Bonds London Stock Exchange AXB
10 Paternoster Square,
London, EC4M 7LS, United Kingdom
Website: www.londonstockexchange.com
Singapore Exchange Limited -
Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited
(SGXNet Services Operations)
2 Shenton Way, #02-02, SGX Centre 1,
Singapore - 068804
Website: www.sgx.com
India International Exchange (IFSC) Limited -
1st Floor, Unit no. 101, The Signature,
Building no. 13B, Road 1C, Zone 1, GIFT SEZ,
GIFT City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat - 382355
Website: www.indiainx.com
NSE IFSC Limited -
Unit no. 1201, Brigade International Financial Centre,
12th Floor, Block -14, Road 1 C, Zone 1,
GIFT SEZ, GIFT City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat - 382355
Website: https://www.nseindia.com/nse-international-exchange/about
Convertible Warrants
As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank has no outstanding warrants pending for conversion.
Listing Fee
The Bank has paid annual listing fees for fiscal 2025 to the stock exchanges.
Depositories
The National Securities Depository Limited (the “NSDL”) and the Central Depository Services (India) Limited (the “CDSL”)
are the depositories for the equity shares of the Bank. The Bank has paid annual custodian fees for fiscal 2025 to the
depositories.
Payment of Dividend
In terms of Regulation 12 and Schedule I of the SEBI Listing Regulations, every listed entity is required to mandatorily
make all payments to members, including dividend, by using any Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) approved electronic mode of
payment viz., direct credit, real time gross settlement (“RTGS”), national electronic fund transfer (“NEFT”), electronic clearing
service (“ECS”), national automated clearing house (“NACH”), etc. The Bank would be entitled to use the bank account details
of the members available with the depository participants to facilitate payment through electronic mode.
All members of the Bank holding equity shares in electronic form are requested to provide details relating to their bank
account number, including nine-digit MICR code and 11-digit IFSC code, email address and mobile numbers to their
depository participants.
All members of the Bank holding equity shares in physical form are requested to provide details relating to their bank
account number, including nine digit MICR code and 11-digit IFSC code, email address and mobile numbers to KFIN at
Selenium Building, Tower - B, Plot nos. 31 & 32, Financial District, Serilingampally, Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana, by
quoting their folio number in form ISR-1 and attaching a photocopy of the cheque leaf of the said bank account and a
self-attested copy of their PAN card.
In case the dividend paid through electronic mode is rejected by the corresponding bank for any reason whatsoever, the
Bank will issue a demand draft and print the bank account details available with KFIN on the said dividend demand draft to
avoid fraudulent encashment.
313
Statutory reports
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide its master circular dated 7 May, 2024 has mandated that holders
of physical securities, whose folio(s) are not updated with any of the KYC details vide., PAN, Choice of Nomination, Contact
details (Postal Address with PIN and Mobile Number), Bank A/c details and Specimen signature, shall be eligible for any
payment including dividend, interest or redemption in respect of such folios, only through electronic mode with effect from
1 April, 2024. In this regard, please refer to SEBI FAQs by accessing the link: https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/faqfiles/
sep-2024/1727418250017.pdf (FAQ nos. 38 & 39). Accordingly, dividend payable to members holding shares in physical
mode, whose KYC details are not updated shall be withheld by the Bank. Members are therefore advised to update their KYC
details on priority, if not done already.
Unclaimed Dividend
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 125 read with 124(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and the Investor
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (the “IEPF Rules”), the Bank
is required to transfer the amount of dividend lying unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive financial years from the
date of its transfer to the unpaid dividend account to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (the “IEPF”). Accordingly,
unclaimed dividend amounting to `1,18,04,460 in respect of fiscal 2017 was transferred by the Bank to the IEPF on
25 September, 2024.
The details of the unclaimed dividend as on 31 March, 2025 and the last date for claiming the same prior to its transfer to
the IEPF are as under:
Unclaimed dividend as
Percentage to total Date of declaration of Last date for claiming dividend
Fiscal on 31 March, 2025
dividend declared dividend prior to its transfer to the IEPF
(in `)
2017-18 No dividend declared
2018-19 17,27,854 0.07 20 July, 2019 25 August, 2026
2019-20 No dividend declared
2020-21 No dividend declared
2021-22 19,99,610 0.07 29 July, 2022 4 September, 2029
2022-23 21,88,461 0.08 28 July, 2023 3 September, 2030
2023-24 29,52,803 0.11 26 July, 2024 1 September, 2031
Total 88,68,728
Members of the Bank are requested to verify details of their unclaimed dividends in respect of fiscal 2019, fiscal 2022, fiscal
2023 and fiscal 2024 and lodge their claim with KFIN, prior to the date of its transfer to the IEPF. Members may write to
KFIN at einward.ris@kfintech.com for any assistance, in this regard.
In its endeavour to reduce the quantum of unclaimed dividend, the Bank has sent reminders in the month of August 2024
and March 2025 to all the members whose dividend was lying in the unclaimed dividend account. These reminders were also
supported with requisite forms and papers to simplify the claim process and to facilitate a seamless transfer.
Transfer of underlying equity shares to the IEPF
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the Act and the relevant provisions of the IEPF Rules, the equity
shares of the Bank on which dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive years are liable to be transferred by the
Bank to the IEPF.
Reminder letters to claim dividend were sent in the month of May 2024 to those members whose dividend and corresponding
shares were due for transfer to the IEPF in fiscal 2025.
The Bank has till 31 March, 2025, transferred 14,02,191 underlying equity shares to the IEPF.
314 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Guidelines to claim dividends / shares transferred to IEPF
The detailed guidelines for claiming dividends / shares which have been transferred to the IEPF in accordance with the IEPF
Rules are mentioned in the investor’s FAQs available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-
corner/financial-results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs.
Dematerialisation of Shares
The equity shares of the Bank are traded on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
No. of Folios No. of Shares
Physical 2,922 26,00,044
Demat 9,68,481 3,09,47,69,022
Total 9,71,403 3,09,73,69,066
During the last three fiscal years, no equity shares of the Bank held in physical form were transferred.
During fiscal 2025, the Bank has undertaken initiatives to encourage its members holding shares in physical form to
dematerialise their holdings. Letters were sent to such members in the month of August 2024 and March 2025 sensitising
them on the benefits of dematerialisation.
Unclaimed Suspense Account
New share certificates issued in fiscal 2015 consequent to the sub-division of shares of the Bank having face value of `10/-
each into five fully paid-up shares of face value of `2/- each, which remained unclaimed in the custody of the RTA were
transferred to Unclaimed Suspense Account of the Bank.
In terms of Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank had sent three reminders to the
members whose physical share certificates remained unclaimed requesting them to claim their shares, before transferring
the said shares to the Unclaimed Suspense Account. The Bank vide these letters also requested the members to update their
KYC details with the RTA.
Details in accordance with Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations are as follows:
Particulars No. of Shareholders No. of Shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying 174 1,32,005
at the beginning of the year
Number of shareholders who approached the Bank for transfer of shares from suspense 21 15,000
account during the year
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense account during the 9 5,500
year**
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying 139 1,09,005
at the end of the year
**During the year 17,500 shares with respect to 26 shareholders were transferred to IEPF in accordance with the IEPF Rules.
Note: Voting rights on these shares were/will remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
315
Statutory reports
Distribution of Shareholding
The distribution of shareholding of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025, is detailed as under:
Electronic Form Physical Form Total
Sr.
No. Category No. of No. of Shares % to No. of No. of % to No. of No. of Shares % to
Holders Equity Holders Shares Equity Holders Equity
1. 1 - 5000 962,922 98,956,504 3.19 2,906 2,476,844 0.08 965,828 101,433,348 3.27
2. 5001 - 10000 1,949 13,927,067 0.45 14 99,200 0 1,963 14,026,267 0.45
3. 10001 - 20000 1,020 14,555,349 0.47 2 24,000 0 1,022 14,579,349 0.47
4. 20001 - 30000 378 9,205,515 0.3 - - - 378 9,205,515 0.3
5. 30001 - 40000 228 7,943,082 0.26 - - - 228 7,943,082 0.26
6. 40001 - 50000 141 6,328,389 0.2 - - - 141 6,328,389 0.2
7. 50001 - 100000 391 28,735,669 0.93 - - - 391 28,735,669 0.93
8. 100001 and above 1,452 2,915,117,447 94.12 - - - 1,452 2,915,117,447 94.12
Total 968,481 3,094,769,022 99.92 2,922 2,600,044 0.08 971,403 3,097,369,066 100
Shareholding Pattern
Category wise shareholding pattern of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 is detailed as under:
Legends Category No. of Shares Percentage
(A) Promoters
Life Insurance Corporation of India 244,860,645 7.91
Total Promoter Holding (A) 244,860,645 7.91
Distribution of Shareholding
(B) Domestic Shareholders
Mutual Funds 958,904,664 30.96 3.330.31 7.91
Insurance 156,449,254 5.05
42.48
Banks / AIFs / NBFCs / Pension Funds 108,852,661 3.51
30.96
Indian Residents 163,059,964 5.26
Body Corporates 32,167,860 1.04
Others 4,645,085 0.15
Total Domestic Holding (B) 1,424,079,488 45.97
(C) Foreign Shareholders
FPIs / FIIs 1,315,838,601 42.48
GDRs 103,078,770 3.33
NRIs / Foreign Nationals / Foreign 9,511,562 0.31 5.05
Companies 0.15 1.04 5.26 3.51
Total Foreign Holding (C) 1,428,428,933 46.12
Total 3,097,369,066 100.00
316 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Shareholders holding more than 1% equity share capital of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025, are as under:
Sr.
Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares Percentage
No.
1. Life Insurance Corporation of India 244,860,645 7.91
2. ICICI through its various mutual fund schemes 180,378,395 5.82
3. HDFC through its various mutual fund schemes 166,867,022 5.39
4. SBI through its various mutual fund schemes 154,545,947 4.99
5. The Bank of New York Mellon, DR (GDRs) 103,078,770 3.33
6. Nippon through its various mutual fund schemes 87,756,844 2.83
7. NPS Trust through its various schemes 69,754,483 2.25
8. Dodge and Cox through its various mutual fund schemes 68,557,850 2.21
9. Government of Singapore 65,175,984 2.10
10. Government Pension Fund Global 64,507,242 2.08
11. Mirae Asset through its various mutual fund schemes 55,987,557 1.81
12. UTI through its various mutual fund schemes 50,849,579 1.64
13. Kotak through its various mutual fund schemes 47,133,082 1.52
14. Aditya Birla through its various mutual fund schemes 37,394,289 1.21
15. SBI Life Insurance Co. Ltd. 34,932,841 1.13
16. Vanguard through its various mutual fund schemes 32,393,619 1.05
1. The above shareholding is on the basis of PAN.
2. Sr. Nos. 2 to 11 represent the top 10 public shareholders of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025.
Credit Ratings
The details of the credit ratings obtained by the Bank in respect of all debt instruments issued by it and outstanding as on
31 March, 2025 along with outlook are as under:
ICRA CARE Ratings CRISIL India Ratings
Sr. Type of
No. Security Date of Credit Outlook Rating Date of Credit Outlook Rating Date of Credit Outlook Rating Date of Credit Outlook Rating
Rating Rating Action Rating Rating Action Rating Action Rating Action
1. Certificate of 19-Nov-24 ICRA - Reaffirmed - - - - 18-Nov-24 CRISIL - Reaffirmed - - - -
Deposits A1+ A1+
2. Infrastructure 19-Nov-24 ICRA Stable Reaffirmed 18-Oct-24 CARE Stable Reaffirmed 18-Nov-24 CRISIL Stable Reaffirmed 01-Oct-24 IND Stable Reaffirmed
bond AAA AAA AAA AAA
3. Tier II 19-Nov-24 ICRA Stable Reaffirmed 18-Oct-24 CARE Stable Reaffirmed 18-Nov-24 CRISIL Stable Reaffirmed 01-Oct-24 IND Stable Reaffirmed
(Basel III) AAA AAA AAA AAA
4. Tier I 19-Nov-24 ICRA Stable Reaffirmed - - - - 18-Nov-24 CRISIL Stable Reaffirmed 01-Oct-24 IND Stable Reaffirmed
(Basel III) AA+ & Assigned AA+ & Assigned AA+
5. Fixed Deposit 19-Nov-24 ICRA Stable Reaffirmed - - - - - - - - 01-Oct-24 IND Stable Reaffirmed
AAA AAA
Ratings for MTN (senior unsecured) securities have been reaffirmed at BB+ with Stable outlook by Fitch Ratings, Baa3 with
Stable outlook by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- with Positive outlook by S&P Global Ratings.
Investor Services
KFIN has been entrusted with the task of administering all aspects relating to investor services for and on behalf of the Bank.
KFIN has appropriate systems to ensure that requisite service is provided to the investors of the Bank in accordance with
applicable corporate and securities laws as per the adopted service standards.
Investors are requested to write to the Bank or to KFIN for availing any services or may send their correspondence /
complaints to shareholders@axisbank.com or einward.ris@kfintech.com.
317
Statutory reports
Members can contact KFIN for redressal of queries by visiting https://kprism.kfintech.com for query registration through free
identity registration process. Members can submit their queries on the above website which would generate a registration
number. For accessing the status / response to the query submitted, the grievance registration number can be used at the
option ‘click here to track your grievance’ after 24 hours.
Investor Correspondence / Complaints
The details of the investor complaints received and redressed by the Bank during fiscal 2025 are as under:
No. of complaints No. of complaints
Received from statutory / regulatory authorities received in unresolved as on
fiscal 2025 31 March 2025
SEBI SCORES 21 0
Stock exchanges 4 0
NSDL / CDSL 1 0
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) 0 0
RBI 0 0
Total no. of complaints received 26 0
Total no. of complaints redressed 26 0
There were no investor complaints pending as on 1 April, 2025. During fiscal 2025, the Bank received 26 complaints from
the members. The Bank had attended to all the complaints and no complaints were pending or remained unresolved to the
satisfaction of the members as on 31 March, 2025.
During fiscal 2025, the Bank received 3,255 investor correspondence(s) as provided herein below, from its investors, capital
market intermediaries, by post, web-based query redressal system of KFIN and through emails, inter alia, in respect of the
services relating to the securities issued by the Bank:
Pending as on Pending as on
Nature of Correspondences Received Replied
1 April, 2024 31 March, 2025
Non-receipt and revalidation of dividend warrants 0 1,458 1,455 3
Change in address 0 13 13 0
Incorporation of ECS details 0 24 24 0
Change / correction in name 0 348 348 0
Change in bank mandate 0 12 12 0
Registration of nominee 0 77 77 0
Others 0 1,323 1,318 5
Total 0 3,255 3,247 8
The statement highlighting the status of the investor correspondence(s) / complaint(s) received and redressed by the
Bank during fiscal 2025 was tabled at the meetings of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee / Board of Directors
(the “Board”) of the Bank for their review and noting.
Process for requests related to physical shares
Pursuant to Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, from time to time, the transfer, transmission and
transposition of securities of listed companies held in physical form shall be effected only in demat mode. Further, SEBI
vide its circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 25 January, 2022, has made it mandatory for
listed companies to issue shares only in demat form while processing investor service requests viz., issue of duplicate
securities certificate, claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account, renewal / exchange of securities certificate, endorsement,
sub-division / splitting of securities certificate, consolidation of securities certificates / folios, transmission and
transposition. RTAs are now required to issue a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ within 30 days of receipt of such request after
removing objections, if any, in lieu of the share certificate while processing any of the aforesaid investor service requests.
The ‘Letter of Confirmation’ shall be valid for a period of 120 days from the date of its issuance, within which the securities
holder / claimant shall make a request to the Depository Participant for dematerialising the said securities.
318 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Accordingly, members are advised to request for such services by submitting a duly filled and signed form ISR-4 or ISR-5,
as applicable, the format of which is available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
financial-results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs.
In cases where the securities holder / claimant fails to submit the demat request to the depository participant within the
period of 120 days from the date of issuance of the Letter of Confirmation from RTA / listed companies, the said securities
shall be credited to ‘Suspense Escrow Demat Account’. Securities which have been moved to ‘Suspense Escrow Demat
Account’ may be claimed by the security holder / claimant by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR- 4 or ISR-5.
In view of the above and also to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares, the Bank has in August 2024 and
March 2025 sent letters to members holding shares in physical form encouraging them to dematerialise their holding.
Shareholder Handbook / Shareholder Services
Members are requested to refer to the investor’s handbook available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/financial-results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs for rights of members, procedures
related to transfer, dematerialisation, transmission, nomination in respect of shareholding, change of address, unclaimed /
unpaid dividend, refund from IEPF, updation of KYC details, etc.
Dispute Resolution
Arbitration Mechanism:
As per SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/76 dated 30 May, 2022, in case of claims or disputes
arising between the shareholders / investors of the Bank and the RTAs, the RTAs shall be subjected to the stock exchange
arbitration mechanism. The arbitration mechanism shall be initiated post exhausting all actions for resolution of complaints
including those received through SCORES portal.
Online Dispute Resolution:
In terms of SEBI circular nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/131 dated 31 July, 2023, SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_
IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated 4 August, 2023, SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/191 dated 20 December, 2023,
investors can register their complaint in case of disputes arising in the Indian Securities Market against the Bank / RTA, on
https://smartodr.in/login by harnessing online conciliation and / or online arbitration. The aforesaid circulars are available
on the website of the Bank. Members may access the same at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/financial-
results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs.
Nomination Facility
Section 72 of the Act provides that every holder of securities of a Company may at any time nominate in the prescribed
manner any person in whom the securities shall vest, in the event of death. Where the securities are held by more than one
person jointly, the joint holders may together nominate any person in whom all the rights in the securities shall vest, in the
event of death of all the joint holders.
In view of the above, the members are encouraged to avail of the nomination facility. The relevant nomination form can be
downloaded from the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/financial-results-and-other-
information/public-notices/investor-faqs or members may write to the Bank or to KFIN for the same.
Please note that the nomination shall automatically be rescinded on transfer / transmission / dematerialisation of the
securities.
Green Initiatives
In terms of Rule 18 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, a company may send a copy of the
notice through electronic mode to those members who have registered their email address(es) either with their depository
participants (“DP”) or with the Company.
319
Statutory reports
Further, as per Regulation 36 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the listed entity is required to send soft copies of its annual
report to all those members who have registered their email address(es) for this purpose.
In case of members whose email address has changed and is not updated with the Bank / RTA, the aforesaid documents
would be sent to the email address available in the records of the Bank / RTA and the same shall be deemed to have been
delivered in compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. Therefore, members are requested
to register their email address or any change thereof with their DP (in case of shares held in electronic form) or with KFIN (in
case of shares held in physical form) at the earliest.
Further, in terms of MCA Circular no. 09/2024 dated 19 September, 2024 and SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated 3 October, 2024, the Integrated Annual Report containing the Standalone and Consolidated
Financial Statements for fiscal 2025, the Board’s Report, the Auditors’ Report and other documents required to be attached
thereto along with the notice convening the 31st AGM is being sent only through electronic mode to those members who
have registered their email address(es) with the Bank / KFIN or their respective DPs, as the case may be. Accordingly, no
physical copy of the notice of the 31st AGM and the Integrated Annual Report for fiscal 2025 is being sent to members who
have not registered their email address(es) with the Bank / RTA. The Bank is sending, at the latest available postal address, a
letter providing the web-link, including the exact path, where complete details of the Integrated Annual Report is available
to those shareholder(s) who have not registered their email address.
Any member who still wishes to receive a physical copy of the Integrated Annual Report is requested to write to
einward.ris@ kfintech.com or shareholders@axisbank.com quoting his / her DP ID and Client ID / folio number as the case
may be, to enable the Bank to provide physical copy of the said documents free of cost. Please note that the said documents
are also uploaded on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information.
Means of Communication
Quarterly / Annual Results: The unaudited / audited financial results of the Bank are reviewed and approved by the Board
and disclosed to the stock exchanges in accordance with Regulation 30 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The results of the
Bank are simultaneously also made available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
financial-results-and-other-information and published in Business Standard, Mint (all editions) and Sandesh (Ahmedabad
edition), the day after they are disclosed to the stock exchanges.
Investor Presentations: Detailed presentations are published for the Bank’s quarterly, half-yearly as well as annual financial
results. The Bank also arranges post quarterly earnings conference calls for market participants, which is the key platform
to share the Bank’s view on various aspects related to the sector, the Bank and its financials. These presentations, audio
recordings, video recordings (if any), and transcripts of the earnings conference call are available on the website of the Bank
at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/financial-results-and-other-information/quarterly-results and are also
intimated to the stock exchanges within the prescribed timelines.
The Bank also holds regular interactions (meetings, roadshows, etc.) with its institutional shareholders and market participants
based on publicly available information. The Bank provides advance intimation about the quarterly earnings conference
calls and group meetings to the stock exchanges. The Bank also provides the schedule of investors / analysts with whom
interaction will take place along with the link of the presentation referred during Analysts / Institutional Investors
the group meetings to the stock exchanges in accordance with the SEBI Listing meets during fiscal 2025
Regulations. During fiscal 2025 the Bank participated in 44 group meetings and 7
interacted with 527 investors and analysts at these group meetings.
Official Press Releases: Official press releases are available on the website of the 8
Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/about-us/press-releases.
Total 44
16
Compliance Reports, Corporate Announcements, Material Information and
Updates: The Bank disseminates requisite corporate announcements under the
SEBI Listing Regulations including the quarterly shareholding pattern, corporate
governance report etc., electronically through designated portals of the stock 13
exchanges and on its website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
corporate-governance. Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4
320 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Integrated Annual Report: The Integrated Annual Report of the Bank containing, inter alia, the Annual Audited Financial
Statements (standalone and consolidated), the Board’s Report, Auditors’ Report, Management Discussion and Analysis
Report and other important information is circulated to the members and others entitled thereto and is also made available
on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/annual-reports.
Letters / Emails to Investors: The Bank addressed various investor-centric letters / emails / SMS(es) to its members during
the year. This includes reminders for claiming unclaimed / unpaid dividend from the Bank, dematerialisation of shares,
updation of email address(es), PAN and bank account details.
Designated exclusive email address: The Bank has designated the following email address exclusively for investor servicing:
shareholders@axisbank.com.
Shareholders’ Feedback Survey: During fiscal 2025, the Bank sought feedback from members on various matters relating
to investor services and annual report. The Bank has also initiated sending shareholder satisfaction survey link on a monthly
basis to all those shareholders of the Bank who had interacted with KFIN for resolution of their queries / complaints.
The Bank monitors the response received on the shareholder satisfaction survey and takes necessary steps as required.
Evaluation of RTA Services
With a view to enhance and improve shareholder experience, the Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board of the
Bank, during the fiscal 2024, formally adopted ‘Guidelines to evaluate the services of Registrar & Transfer Agent of the Bank’.
These guidelines lay down parameters for annual performance evaluation of the RTA. During fiscal 2025, evaluation was
carried out in accordance with the said guidelines.
General Meetings
The details of the previous three Annual General Meetings (“AGMs”) and summary of the special resolutions passed therein,
are as under:
AGM Day and Date Time Location Special Resolutions
28th Friday, 10.00 Held through Resolution no. 4 - Re-appointment of Girish Paranjpe (DIN: 02172725) as an
29 July, 2022 a.m. video Independent Director of the Bank for his second term of four years with effect from
conferencing 2 November, 2022 up to 1 November, 2026 (both days inclusive).
facility
Resolution no. 5 - Appointment of Manoj Kohli (DIN: 00162071) as an Independent
Director of the Bank for a period of four years with effect from 17 June, 2022 up to
16 June, 2026 (both days inclusive).
Resolution no. 6 - Enhancement of borrowing limit of the Bank up to `250,000
crores under Section 180 (1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Resolution no. 7 - Borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any
other permitted foreign currency, by issue of debt securities on a private placement
basis for an amount of up to `35,000 crores during a period of one year from the date
of passing of this special resolution.
29th Friday, 10.00 Held through Resolution no. 4 - Appointment of N. S. Vishwanathan (DIN: 09568559) as
28 July, 2023 a.m. video an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of four years, with effect from
conferencing 30 May, 2023 up to 29 May, 2027 (both days inclusive).
facility
Resolution no. 9 – Alteration to the Articles of Association of the Bank to insert a
new clause in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing
of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 dated 2 February,
2023, for appointment of a director nominated by debenture trustees in the event of
default as prescribed under Regulation 15(1)(e) of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, within one month from the date of
receipt of such nomination.
Resolution no. 10 - Borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any
other permitted foreign currency, by issue of debt securities on a private placement
basis for an amount of up to `35,000 crores during a period of one year from the date
of passing of this special resolution.
321
Statutory reports
AGM Day and Date Time Location Special Resolutions
30th Friday, 10:00 Held through Resolution no. 6 – Re-appointment of Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) as an
26 July, 2024 a.m. video Independent Director of the Bank for a period of four years, with effect from
conferencing 1 August, 2024 up to 31 July, 2028 (both days inclusive).
facility
Resolution no. 7 – Re-appointment of G. Padmanabhan (DIN: 07130908) as
an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of four years, with effect from
28 October, 2024 up to 27 October, 2028 (both days inclusive).
Resolution no. 13 – Borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any
other permitted foreign currency, by issue of debt securities on a private placement
basis for an amount of up to `35,000 crores during a period of one year from the date
of passing of this special resolution.
Resolution no. 14 – Raising of funds by issue of equity shares / depository receipts
and / or any other instruments or securities representing either equity shares and / or
convertible securities linked to equity shares for an amount of up to `20,000 crores.
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM require passing of resolution through postal ballot.
Further, during the last three years, no resolutions have been rejected by the shareholders.
Procedure for Postal Ballot
The postal ballot process was conducted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 110 and 108 of the Act read with
Rules 22 and 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules 2014.
MCA vide its circulars has permitted companies to conduct postal ballots by sending the notice in electronic form.
Accordingly, physical copies of the notice along with postal ballot form and pre-paid business reply envelopes were not
sent to the members for the postal ballots conducted during the year. Members were requested to convey their assent
or dissent through remote e-voting only. Copies of the postal ballot notice were hosted on the website of the Bank,
websites of the stock exchanges (i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited) at www.bseindia.com and
www.nseindia.com, respectively, and on the website of our e-voting agency i.e., NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com. An
advertisement was also published in the newspapers informing about completion of dispatch of the postal ballot notice and
other details.
Voting rights were reckoned on the paid-up value of the shares registered in the names of the members as on the cut-off
date.
A Scrutinizer was appointed by the Bank for conducting the postal ballot process in a fair and transparent manner. The
Scrutinizer submitted his report to the Chairman and the results of the voting were disclosed to the stock exchanges, were
published on the websites of the Bank and of the e-voting agency, and were also displayed at the registered office.
Details of Special Resolution passed through Postal Ballot during fiscal 2025
Date of Special Resolution No. of No. of % of % of
Date of Link for Postal Ballot
Postal Ballot Scrutinizer passed through Votes in Votes Votes Votes
Approval Notice and Results
Notice Postal Ballot Favour Against in Favor Against
4 April 2024 CS KVS 10 May, 2024 https://www.axisbank. Appointment of Pranam 2,49,77,70,037 13,59,608 99.9456 0.0544
Subramanyam, com/shareholders- Wahi (DIN: 00031914)
Practising corner/shareholders- as an Independent
Company Secretary information/postal-ballot Director of the Bank
(Membership No. for a period of four
FCS 5400 and years, with effect from
Certificate of 15 February, 2024 up to
Practice No. 4815) 14 February, 2028 (both
days inclusive)
Note: The Board at its meeting held on 17 January 2025, proposed a special resolution for the approval of the members vide
postal ballot with respect to re-appointment of Prof. S. Mahendra Dev (DIN: 06519869) for his second term of four years
with effect from 14 June, 2025.
322 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate governance
Additional information on auditors and directors seeking appointment / re-appointment at the ensuing AGM
The details of secretarial auditor and directors seeking appointment / re-appointment at the ensuing AGM in terms of
Regulation 36(5) and 36(3) respectively, of the SEBI Listing Regulations is provided in the notice of the ensuing 31st AGM of
the Bank.
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities
The details with respect to commodity price risk in terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2018/0000000141
dated 15 November, 2018 is as follows:
1. Risk management policy with respect to commodities including through hedging: As the Bank is not exposed to XAU
(Gold) and XAG (Silver), the Bank does not have a risk management policy for commodity price risk.
2. Exposure of the Bank to commodity and commodity risks faced by the Bank during the fiscal year is given below:
a) Total exposure of the Bank to commodities in INR: Nil as on 31 March, 2025.
b) Exposure of the Bank to various commodities: Not applicable.
c) Commodity risks faced by the Bank during the year and how they have been managed: The Bank did not run any
trading positions in XAU (Gold) or XAG (Silver) and does not have exposure to any other commodity.
Plant Locations
Being a banking company registered under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the provisions relating to disclosure of details
relating to plant location are not applicable to the Bank.
The Bank operates through a network of branches spread across the length and breadth of the country. As on 31 March,
2025, the Bank had a network of 5,879 domestic branches and extension counters, 13,941 ATMs and cash recycler machines.
The list of branches is available on the website of the Bank at https://branch.axisbank.com.
323
Statutory reports
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
As at 31 March, 2025
As per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated 10 May, 2021 on ‘Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting
by listed entities’, the Bank has published the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for fiscal 2025.
Further, as per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12 July, 2023 on ‘BRSR Core - Framework for Assurance
and ESG disclosures for Value Chain’, the BRSR Core has been externally assured by SGS India Private Limited (SGS India) for which ‘Reasonable
Assurance’ was provided.
The Bank’s BRSR for fiscal 2025 along with the Assurance Statement has been hosted on the Bank’s website:
https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/business-responsibility-report
324 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To The Members of Axis Bank Limited
Report on the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1. We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), which comprise
the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, the Standalone Profit And Loss Account, and the Standalone Cash
Flow Statement for the year ended on that date, and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, including a summary
of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (‘the Standalone Financial Statements’).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone
Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, as well as the Companies Act,
2013 (‘the Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘the RBI’), in the manner so required for
banking companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section
133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 (‘AS’) and other accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the State of Affairs of the Bank as at 31 March 2025, and its profit and its Cash Flows for
the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of the
Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Bank, in accordance with the Code of
Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act, and the Rules thereunder,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment were of most significance in our audit of the
Standalone Financial Statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
Standalone Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the Key Audit Matters:
Sr.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
No.
1 Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
As the Bank operates on Core Banking Solution across its branches In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we
and asset centres, the reliability and security of Information involved our specialists to understand the IT control environment,
Technology (“IT”) systems plays a key role in the business IT infrastructure and IT systems.
operations. Since large volume of transactions are processed daily,
We conducted an assessment and identified key IT systems that
the IT controls are required to ensure that applications process
are critical for accounting and financial reporting process and
data as expected and that changes are made in an appropriate
are relevant for our audit and tested their internal controls. In
manner.
particular:
IT infrastructure is critical for smooth functioning and accurate
• We obtained an understanding of the Bank’s IT control
accounting and financial reporting process.
environment and key changes during the audit period that
Due to the pervasive nature and complexity of the IT environment, may be relevant to the audit;
we have ascertained key IT systems used in financial reporting
process and its related controls as a key audit matter.
325
Financial statements
Standalone Financial Statement
Sr.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
No.
1 Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
• We tested the design, implementation and operating
effectiveness of the Bank’s General IT controls over the
key IT systems that are critical to accounting and financial
reporting. This included evaluation of Bank’s controls for user
access management, program change management, database
management, network operations, incident management and
other IT operations performed by the Bank during the period
of audit;
• We tested key automated and manual business cycle controls
and logic for system generated reports relevant to the audit;
and
• We also tested compensating controls and performed
alternate procedures to assess whether there were any
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the
financial statements.
2 Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning on Advances (IRAC) as per the regulatory requirements.
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2025: INR 1,040,811 crore
Provision for Non-Performing Advances as at 31 March 2025: INR 10,272.49 crore
Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(5.3) and Schedule 18(1)- Note 1.4
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular issued by • Our audit approach included testing the design, operating
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on ‘Prudential Norms for Income effectiveness of internal controls and substantive audit
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning pertaining procedures in respect of income recognition, asset
to Advances’ (the’ IRAC norms’) and amendments thereto (“RBI classification and provisioning pertaining to advances. In
guidelines”) which prescribes the norms for identification and particular:
classification of Non-Performing Assets (‘NPAs’) and the minimum • We have evaluated and understood the Bank’s internal
provision required for such assets. control system in adhering to the RBI guidelines;
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine the • We have analysed and understood key IT systems/
identification and provision required against NPAs considering applications used and tested the design and implementation
various quantitative as well as qualitative factors. and operational effectiveness of relevant controls in relation
As the identification of and provisioning against NPAs requires to income recognition, asset classification, viz., standard, sub-
considerable level of management estimation, application of standard, doubtful and loss with reference to RBI guidelines
various regulatory requirements and its significance to the overall and provisioning pertaining to advances; and
audit due to stakeholder and regulatory focus, we have identified • We test checked advances to examine the validity and
this as a key audit matter. accuracy of the recorded amounts, provision for NPAs, and
compliance with IRAC norms.
• Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of disclosures as
per RBI guidelines relating to NPAs.
Other Information
5. The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Bank’s Annual Report but does not include the Standalone Financial Statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The Other Information included is expected to be made available to us after the date of this
auditor’s report.
6. Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
7. In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the Standalone Financial Statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated.
326 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
8. When we read the other information, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required
to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the
relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements
9. The Bank’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act, with
respect to the preparation of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the State of Affairs,
Profit and Cash Flows of the Bank in accordance with the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the
Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, and other accounting principles generally accepted
in India and provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines and issued by
the RBI from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection of the appropriate accounting software for
ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations including those related to retention of audit logs; selection
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the
Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.
10. In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, the Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for
assessing the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Management and the Board of Directors either intends to
liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
11. The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
12. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
13. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
13.1. I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
13.2. Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial
Statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
13.3. Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Management.
13.4. Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may
cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern.
327
Financial statements
13.5. E valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
14. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing
of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
15. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements for the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
16. Attention is drawn to the fact that the Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended 31 March 2024
were audited by predecessor auditors whose report dated 24 April 2024 expressed an unmodified opinion on those
Standalone Financial Statements.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
17. The Standalone Balance Sheet and the Standalone Profit and Loss account have been drawn up in accordance with
the provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act and relevant rules
issued thereunder.
18. As required by sub-section (3) of section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, based on our audit we report that:
18.1. W e have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief,
were necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
18.2. The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice during the course of our audit, have been within the
powers of the Bank; and
18.3. Since the key operations of the Bank are automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking
system, the audit is carried out centrally, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our
audit are available therein. We have visited 92 branches (including credit units) to examine the records maintained
at such branches for the purpose of our audit.
19. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit we report, to the extent applicable, that:
19.1. W e have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief
were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
19.2. I n our opinion, proper books of accounts as required by law have been kept by the Bank, so far as it appears from
our examination of those books.
19.3. T he Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Profit And Loss Account, and the Standalone Cash Flow Statement
dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
19.4. In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified
under Section 133 of the Act read with the relevant rules thereunder to the extent they are not inconsistent with
the accounting policies prescribed by the RBI.
19.5. O n the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2025 taken on record
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on 31 March 2025 from being appointed as a
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
328 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
19.6. With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
of the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ‘Annexure A’.
19.7. W ith respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of
Section 197(16) of the Act, as amended; the Bank is a Banking Company as defined under Banking Regulation Act,
1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under Section 197 of the Act, do not apply.
20. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the
explanations given to us:
20.1. T he Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its Standalone Financial
Statements – Refer Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities to the Standalone Financial Statements;
20.2. The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Schedule 5 and 12 read
with Note No. 2.14 of Schedule 18 to the Standalone Financial Statements;
20.3. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Bank.
20.4. T he Management has represented, to best of their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been advanced or
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the
Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding,
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or
invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (‘Ultimate
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
20.5. T he Management has represented, to best of their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been received by
the Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the understanding,
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
20.6. B ased on such audit procedures, that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representation under para 20.4 and 20.5
contain any material misstatement.
20.7. I n our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared and / or paid
during the year by the Bank is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
20.8. B ased on our examination which included test checks, the Bank has used an accounting software for maintaining
its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course of our audit
we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved by the Bank as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672 (formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577 ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDU8496 UDIN: 25117348BMOBBU3174
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025 Date: 24 April 2025
329
Financial statements
Annexure ‘A’ to the Independent Auditors’ report on the Standalone Financial
Statements of Axis Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’).
Opinion
1. We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements of Axis Bank
Limited (‘the Bank’) as at 31 March 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the
Bank for the year ended on that date.
2. In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to the
Standalone Financial Statements and such internal financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2025,
based on the internal controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘the Guidance Note’).
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
3. The Bank’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal
control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of
adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of
its business, including adherence to the Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s responsibility
4. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone
Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the
Standards on Auditing (‘SA’), prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal
financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements. Those SAs and the Guidance Note require
that we comply with the ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements were established
and maintained and whether such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls
with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial
controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement
of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
7. A bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial
Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A bank’s internal
financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements include those policies and procedures that
330 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the Bank;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of Management and Directors
of the Bank; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or
disposition of the Bank’s assets that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
8. Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with
reference to the Standalone Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial
controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672 (formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577 ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDU8496 UDIN: 25117348BMOBBU3174
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025 Date: 24 April 2025
331
Financial statements
Standalone Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
(` in Thousands)
Schedule As on As on
No. 31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Capital and Liabilities
Capital 1 6,194,738 6,173,141
Employees' Stock Options Outstanding 1A 11,081,826 8,265,768
Reserves & Surplus 2 1,779,974,715 1,496,176,849
Deposits 3 11,729,520,224 10,686,413,920
Borrowings 4 1,841,465,165 1,968,117,504
Other Liabilities and Provisions 5 731,062,125 606,938,824
Total capital and liabilities 16,099,298,793 14,772,086,006
Assets
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 736,384,369 860,774,849
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice 7 260,936,555 283,769,025
Investments 8 3,961,417,941 3,315,272,496
Advances 9 10,408,113,203 9,650,683,843
Fixed Assets 10 62,916,985 56,845,750
Other Assets 11 669,529,740 604,740,043
Total Assets 16,099,298,793 14,772,086,006
Contingent Liabilities 12 28,756,480,920 19,088,924,573
Bills for Collection 769,311,985 736,251,008
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts 17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
332 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Standalone Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in Thousands)
Year ended Year ended
Schedule No.
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I Income
Interest earned 13 1,226,770,401 1,093,686,327
Other income 14 252,570,562 224,419,552
Total Income 1,479,340,963 1,318,105,879
II Expenditure
Interest expended 15 683,292,212 594,741,459
Operating expenses 16 374,999,428 352,132,840
Provisions and contingencies 18 (1.14)(e) 157,314,504 122,617,248
Total Expenditure 1,215,606,144 1,069,491,547
III Net Profit For The Year (I - II) 263,734,819 248,614,332
Balance In Profit & Loss Account Brought Forward 602,540,556 441,449,302
IV Amount Available For Appropriation/Transfers 866,275,375 690,063,634
V Appropriations/Transfers:
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 65,933,705 62,153,583
Transfer to Capital Reserve 18 (1.1)(b)(iii) 2,143,457 1,395,512
Transfer to Special Reserve 18 (1.1)(b)(iv) 10,247,300 9,681,300
Transfer to Investment Reserve 18 (1.1)(b)(v) - 2,422,869
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve 18 (1.1)(b)(vii) 2,480,000 8,790,000
Dividend paid during the year 18 (2.3) 3,090,898 3,079,814
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet 782,380,015 602,540,556
Total 866,275,375 690,063,634
VI Earnings Per Equity Share (Face Value `2/- Per Share) 18 (2.1)
Basic (In `) 85.28 80.67
Diluted (In `) 84.77 80.10
Significant Accounting Policies And Notes To Accounts 17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
333
Financial statements
Standalone Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in Thousands)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Net profit before taxes 343,465,780 330,600,676
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation on fixed assets, intangibles and goodwill 16,991,363 13,337,492
Mark-to-Market (gain)/loss on investments (7,005,061) (4,313,367)
Amortisation of premium/discount on investments 6,516,018 8,941,824
Provision for Non Performing Assets (including bad debts)/Restructured assets 113,552,817 64,528,147
Provision on standard assets and other contingencies 2,123,792 3,828,497
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net) 94,480 37,163
Dividend from Subsidiaries (245,813) (413,788)
Employee stock options/units expense 4,239,758 4,543,315
(i) 479,733,134 421,089,959
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/Decrease in investments (128,697,328) (363,503,427)
(Increase)/Decrease in advances (873,215,213) (1,263,610,900)
Increase /(Decrease) in deposits 1,043,106,304 1,216,961,816
(Increase)/Decrease in other assets (63,156,749) 105,546,634
Increase/(Decrease) in other liabilities & provisions 111,223,567 14,623,700
(ii) 89,260,581 (289,982,177)
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (iii) (74,871,691) (66,500,956)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii) (A) 494,122,024 64,606,826
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets (23,281,607) (22,945,641)
Purchase consideration for acquistion of Citibank India consumer business - (3,298,509)
(Increase)/Decrease in Held to Maturity investments (471,701,030) (63,819,720)
Increase in investment in Subsidiaries/Associate (28,755,602) (3,008,741)
Decrease in investment in Subsidiaries 3,292,773 -
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 112,141 79,138
Dividend from Subsidiaries 245,813 413,788
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (B) (520,087,512) (92,579,685)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments - -
Repayment of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments (8,264,500) -
Increase/(Decrease) in borrowings (other than subordinated debt, Additional Tier I (118,387,839) 105,117,119
instruments (net))
Proceeds from issue of share capital 21,597 19,437
Proceeds from share premium (net of share issue expenses) 6,837,089 5,552,700
Payment of dividend (3,090,898) (3,079,814)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (C) (122,884,551) 107,609,442
334 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(` in Thousands)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Effect of exchange fluctuation translation reserve (D) 1,627,089 799,219
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A)+(B)+(C)+(D) (147,222,950) 80,435,802
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,144,543,874 1,064,108,072
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 997,320,924 1,144,543,874
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement:
1. Cash and cash equivalents includes the following
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India (Refer Schedule 6) 736,384,369 860,774,849
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice (Refer Schedule 7) 260,936,555 283,769,025
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 997,320,924 1,144,543,874
2. Amount of Corporate Social Responsibility related expenses spent during the year in
cash `286.92 crores (previous year `217.42 crores)
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
335
Financial statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
Schedule 1 - Capital
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Authorised Capital
4,250,000,000 (Previous year - 4,250,000,000) Equity Shares of `2/- each 8,500,000 8,500,000
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Capital
3,097,369,066 (Previous year - 3,086,570,375) Equity Shares of `2/- each fully paid-up 6,194,738 6,173,141
Schedule 1A - Employees’ Stock Options Outstanding
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Opening Balance 8,265,768 4,234,118
Additions during the year1 4,239,659 4,543,315
Deductions during the year2 (1,423,601) (511,665)
Closing Balance 11,081,826 8,265,768
1. Represents cost of employee stock options/units recognised in P&L during the year of `365.79 crores (previous year `400.70 crores) and cost
of employee stock options/units of `58.18 crores (previous year `53.63 crores) recovered from group entities
2. R epresents amount transferred to Share Premium on account of exercise of employee stock options/units and to General Reserve on lapses
of employee stock options
Schedule 2 - Reserves And Surplus
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance 266,657,012 204,503,429
Additions during the year 65,933,705 62,153,583
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 332,590,717 266,657,012
II. Capital Reserve
Opening Balance 39,295,827 37,900,315
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(iii)] 2,143,457 1,395,512
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 41,439,284 39,295,827
III. Share Premium Account
Opening Balance 524,974,613 518,932,238
Additions during the year 8,181,000 6,042,375
Less: Share issue expenses - -
Closing Balance 533,155,613 524,974,613
IV. Revenue And Other Reserves
(A) Special Reserve
Opening Balance 24,183,200 14,501,900
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(iv)] 10,247,300 9,681,300
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 34,430,500 24,183,200
336 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
(B) Investment Reserve Account
Opening Balance 2,422,869 -
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(v)] - 2,422,869
Deductions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(v)] 2,422,869 -
Closing Balance - 2,422,869
(C) General Reserve
Opening Balance 3,581,141 3,559,151
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(vi)] 14,681,276 21,990
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 18,262,417 3,581,141
(D) Foreign Currency Translation Reserve [Refer Schedule 17 (5.7)]
Opening Balance 5,911,631 5,112,412
Additions during the year 1,627,089 799,219
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 7,538,720 5,911,631
(E) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening Balance 26,610,000 17,820,000
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(vii)] 2,480,000 8,790,000
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 29,090,000 26,610,000
(F) Available For Sale (AFS) Reserve
Opening Balance - -
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(viii)] 1,103,859 -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 1,103,859 -
(G) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening Balance - -
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(ix)] (16,410) -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance (16,410) -
V. Balance In Profit & Loss Account 782,380,015 602,540,556
Total 1,779,974,715 1,496,176,849
Schedule 3 - Deposits
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
A. I. Demand Deposits
(I) From banks 41,841,735 46,953,146
(Ii) From others 1,626,145,104 1,525,727,040
II. Savings Bank Deposits 3,113,893,251 3,021,325,802
III. Term Deposits
(I) From banks 458,515,937 436,983,633
(Ii) From others 6,489,124,197 5,655,424,299
Total (I, II And III)1 11,729,520,224 10,686,413,920
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 11,429,290,806 10,536,778,632
II. Deposits of branches outside India 300,229,418 149,635,288
Total (I And Ii)1 11,729,520,224 10,686,413,920
1 Includes deposits under lien amounting to `102,032.84 crores (previous year `86,754.13 crores)
337
Financial statements
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Borrowings in India
(i) Reserve Bank of India - -
(ii) Other banks1 7,351,709 200,000
(iii) Other institutions & agencies2 1,491,036,832 1,607,141,632
II. Borrowings outside India3 343,076,624 360,775,872
Total 1,841,465,165 1,968,117,504
Secured borrowings included in I & II above 5,251,709 -
1. Borrowings from other banks include Subordinated Debt of `15.00 crores (previous year `15.00 crores) in the nature of Non-Convertible
Debentures [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(a)]
2. B orrowings from other institutions & agencies include Subordinated Debt of `22,715.00 crores (previous year `23,565.00 crores) in the
nature of Non-Convertible Debentures [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(a)]
3. B orrowings outside india include Additional Tier I Bonds in the nature of Perpetual Debt amounting to $600 million (`5,128.50 crores);
previous year $600 million (`5,004.30 crores) [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(a)]
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities And Provisions
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Bills payable 61,937,960 67,138,902
II. Inter-office adjustments (net) - -
III. Interest accrued 33,198,444 32,427,824
IV. General provision against standard assets 50,218,680 49,490,111
V. MTM loss on forex & derivative contracts [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(k)] 199,285,425 128,063,650
VI. Provision for tax (net) 10,779,912 -
VII. Others (including provisions) [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(k) and 18 (2.10)(c)] 375,641,704 329,818,337
Total 731,062,125 606,938,824
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 80,739,346 96,348,066
II. Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(i) in Current Account 446,235,023 481,936,783
(ii) in Other Accounts (includes reverse repo under Liquidity Adjustment Facility) 209,410,000 282,490,000
Total 736,384,369 860,774,849
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I In India
(i) Balance with Banks
(a) in Current Accounts 897,301 6,972,993
(b) in Other Deposit Accounts 1,075,931 13,425,306
(ii) Money at Call and Short Notice
(a) With banks - 1,000,000
(b) With other institutions 45,043,141 61,497,707
Total (i and ii) 47,016,373 82,896,006
338 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
II. Outside India
(i) in Current Accounts 45,312,197 37,572,764
(ii) in Other Deposit Accounts 119,545,335 93,213,428
(iii) Money at Call & Short Notice 49,062,650 70,086,827
Total (i, ii and iii) 213,920,182 200,873,019
GRAND TOTAL (I+II) 260,936,555 283,769,025
Schedule 8 - Investments
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Investments in India in -
(i) Government Securities1 2,926,402,418 2,383,945,619
(ii) Other approved securities - -
(iii) Shares 25,697,393 11,315,200
(iv) Debentures and Bonds 729,593,786 738,537,054
(v) Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associates 64,926,913 34,971,311
(vi) Others 56,825,987 46,532,500
[include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds,
Venture Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts, Pass
Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP)]
Total Investments in India 3,803,446,497 3,215,301,684
II. Investments outside India in -
(i) Government Securities (including local authorities) 154,352,666 94,218,603
(ii) Subsidiaries /Joint Ventures abroad 30,209 3,322,982
(iii) Others (include Equity Shares and Bonds) 3,588,569 2,429,227
Total Investments outside India 157,971,444 99,970,812
GRAND TOTAL (I+II) 3,961,417,941 3,315,272,496
1. Includes securities of face value `1,70,046.36 crores (previous year `1,52,280.19 crores) pledged for availment of fund transfer facility, clearing
facility repo contracts and margin requirements
Schedule 9 - Advances
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted 168,182,349 164,381,999
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand1 3,235,795,300 2,735,199,385
(iii) Term loans 7,004,135,554 6,751,102,459
Total (i, ii and iii) 10,408,113,203 9,650,683,843
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets2 7,563,191,860 6,706,680,158
(ii) Covered by Bank/Government Guarantees3 18,317,573 41,725,702
(iii) Unsecured 2,826,603,770 2,902,277,983
Total (i, ii and iii) 10,408,113,203 9,650,683,843
C. I. Advances in India
(i) Priority Sector 3,845,589,259 3,690,701,102
(ii) Public Sector 120,805,783 171,329,445
(iii) Banks 157,444,059 156,461,188
(iv) Others 5,987,166,756 5,346,157,277
Total (i, ii, iii and iv) 10,111,005,857 9,364,649,012
II. Advances Outside India
(i) Due from banks 3,376,263 2,418,745
(ii) Due from others -
339
Financial statements
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
(a) Bills purchased and discounted 64,067,482 62,953,571
(b) Syndicated loans - -
(c) Others 229,663,601 220,662,515
Total (i and ii) 297,107,346 286,034,831
Grand Total (CI+CII) 10,408,113,203 9,650,683,843
1. Net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) `20,192.94 crores (previous year `19,999.61 crores), includes lending
under IBPC `1,350.00 crores (previous year NIL)
2. Includes advances against Book Debts
3. Includes advances against L/Cs issued by other banks
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Premises
Gross Block
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year 20,221,464 18,731,464
Additions during the year - 1,490,000
Deductions during the year - -
Total 20,221,464 20,221,464
Depreciation
As on 31 March of the preceding year 3,042,034 2,760,128
Charge for the year 281,906 281,906
Deductions during the year - -
Depreciation to date 3,323,940 3,042,034
Net Block 16,897,524 17,179,430
II. Other fixed assets (including furniture & fixtures and intangibles)
Gross Block
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year 237,839,446 220,966,581
Additions/(Deletions) on account of acquisition of Citibank India Consumer Business - (166,968)
Additions during the year1 24,693,117 20,563,645
Deductions during the year (6,611,205) (3,523,812)
Total 255,921,358 237,839,446
Depreciation
As on 31 March of the preceding year 200,596,581 190,963,890
Charge for the year 16,709,457 13,055,586
Deductions during the year (6,392,196) (3,422,895)
Depreciation to date 210,913,842 200,596,581
Net Block 45,007,516 37,242,865
III. Capital Work-In-Progress (including capital advances) 1,011,945 2,423,455
Grand Total (I+II+III) 62,916,985 56,845,750
1. includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation
340 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Inter-office adjustments (net) - -
II. Interest Accrued 139,696,834 114,374,576
III. Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net of provisions) 11,053,461 781,015
IV. Stationery and stamps 34,647 27,595
V. Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1 - -
VI. MTM gain on forex & derivative contracts 204,964,200 124,300,727
VII. Others2,3 313,780,598 365,256,130
Total 669,529,740 604,740,043
1. Represents balance net of provision of `1,855.85 crores (previous year `1,855.85 crores) on Land held as non-banking asset
2. Includes deferred tax assets of `4,441.01 crores (previous year `5,312.30 crores) [Refer Schedule 18 (2.8)]
3. Includes Priority Sector Shortfall Deposits of `14,450.47 crores (previous year `21,557.10 crores)
Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
(` in Thousands)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts 14,772,169 24,534,308
II. Liability for partly paid investments 1,266,410 -
III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1 12,565,884,623 8,403,866,787
IV. Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts1 13,695,933,799 8,211,897,660
V. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) In India 1,216,989,034 1,068,121,924
(b) Outside India 194,901,126 213,150,833
VI. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 553,414,271 590,875,143
VII. Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable 513,319,488 576,477,918
Grand Total [Refer Schedule 18 (2.14)] 28,756,480,920 19,088,924,573
1. Represents notional amount
341
Financial statements
Schedules Forming Part of the Profit & Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
(` in Thousands)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Interest/discount on advances/bills 972,002,671 871,066,016
II. Income on investments 229,283,393 200,106,203
III. Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds 12,362,220 9,082,703
IV. Others 13,122,117 13,431,405
Total 1,226,770,401 1,093,686,327
Schedule 14 - Other Income
(` in Thousands)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 205,450,773 182,563,994
II. Profit/(Loss) on sale of investments (net) 12,842,508 13,646,670
III. Profit/(Loss) on revaluation of investments (net) 7,005,061 4,313,367
IV. Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1 (94,480) (37,163)
V. Profit/(Loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net) 21,627,818 19,354,715
VI. Income earned by way of dividends etc. from subsidiaries/companies and/or joint venture 245,813 413,788
abroad/in India
VII. Miscellaneous Income [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(m)] 5,493,069 4,164,181
Total 252,570,562 224,419,552
1. includes provision for diminution in value of fixed assets
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
(` in Thousands)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Interest on deposits 539,016,849 455,417,759
II. Interest on Reserve Bank of India/Inter-bank borrowings 20,559,565 22,802,250
III. Others 123,715,798 116,521,450
Total 683,292,212 594,741,459
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
(` in Thousands)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Payments to and provisions for employees 121,927,882 109,331,092
II. Rent, taxes and lighting 20,118,560 17,836,128
III. Printing and stationery 3,705,398 3,538,295
IV. Advertisement and publicity 1,219,803 1,082,833
V. Depreciation on bank's property 16,991,363 13,337,492
VI. Directors' fees, allowance and expenses 62,475 55,893
VII. Auditors' fees and expenses 44,292 43,238
VIII. Law charges 2,077,090 1,886,207
IX. Postage, telegrams, telephones etc. 4,291,675 4,150,413
X. Repairs and maintenance 21,678,459 17,993,257
XI. Insurance 17,862,954 15,985,748
XII. Other expenditure1 165,019,477 166,892,244
TOTAL 374,999,428 352,132,840
1. Includes commission paid to direct selling agents, charges paid to network partners, cashback expenses, fees paid for purchase of Priority
Sector Lending Certificates, professional fees, technology expenses, business promotion expenses and miscellaneous expenses
342 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
17. Significant accounting policies to the Standalone Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
1. Background
Axis Bank Limited (‘the Bank’) was incorporated in 1993 and provides a complete suite of banking and financial services
including retail banking, wholesale banking and treasury operations. The Bank is primarily governed by the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949. As on 31 March 2025, the Bank has overseas branches at Singapore, DIFC - Dubai and an Offshore
Banking Unit at the International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City),
Gandhinagar, India.
2. Basis of preparation
The Standalone Financial Statements (‘financial statements’) have been prepared and presented under the historical
cost convention on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in
India, unless otherwise stated by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’), to comply with the statutory requirements prescribed
under the Third Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, notifications, guidelines and directives
issued by the RBI from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act,
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021
to the extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. Accounting policies applied
have been consistent with the previous year except otherwise stated.
3. Use of estimates
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles requires
the Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including
contingent liabilities) at the date of the financial statements, revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. The Management believes that the estimates and assumptions used in the
preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Any revisions, as and when carried out, to the
accounting estimates are recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
4. Changes in accounting policies
Effective 1 April, 2024, the Bank has carried out the following changes in its accounting policies:
4.1 Classification and Valuation of Investments
Effective 1 April, 2024 the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on Classification,
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment Direction, 2023’).
Accordingly, as prescribed under the transition provisions of the aforesaid framework the Bank has (1) transferred the
balance in Investment Reserve Account as at 31 March, 2024 of ₹242.29 crores to the general reserve (2) transferred
an amount of ₹1,217.86 crores (net of tax) to the general reserve, resulting into increase in the net worth of the Bank,
on account of reversal of balance in provision for depreciation on investments as at 31 March, 2024 and adjustment for
the difference between the carrying value of its investment portfolio as per the revised framework and the previous
carrying value as at 31 March, 2024.
Further, in compliance with the said RBI Investment Direction 2023, the valuation gains and losses at the period ended
31 March, 2025, across all performing investments held under Available for Sale (AFS) category are aggregated and the
net appreciation amounting to ₹110.39 crores (net of tax) has been directly recognised in AFS Reserve. The securities
held in Fair Value through Profit and Loss (‘FVTPL’) category are fair valued at the period ended 31 March, 2025 and
the net gain of ₹700.51 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2025, arising on such valuation has been recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account. Figures for the previous year are not comparable to that extent.
343
Financial statements
5. Significant accounting policies
5.1 Investments
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY25
Classification
In accordance with the RBI Investment Direction, 2023, investments (except investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates) are classified at the time of acquisition as:
• Held to Maturity (‘HTM’);
• Available for Sale (‘AFS’) and
• Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL) with Held for Trading (HFT) as a separate investment
subcategory within FVTPL.
Classification of Investments in the Balance sheet
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government Securities,
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associates and
Others. Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities, Subsidiaries
and/or Joint Ventures abroad and Others.
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted
for on trade date.
i. Held to Maturity (‘HTM’)
The Bank classifies investments as HTM, if both of the following conditions are met:
• The investment is acquired with the intention and objective of holding it to maturity, i.e., the financial assets
are held with an objective to collect the contractual cash flows; and
• The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
interest on principal outstanding (‘SPPI criterion’) on specified dates.
ii. Available for Sale (‘AFS’)
The Bank classifies investments as AFS, if both the following conditions are met:
• The investment is acquired with an objective which is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and
selling securities; and
• The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that meet SPPI criterion on specified dates.
The Bank, upon initial recognition, may make an irrevocable election to classify an equity instrument as an AFS
that is not held with the objective of trading.
iii. Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL)
The investments that are not classified as HTM or AFS are classified as FVTPL. The Bank classifies investments in
FVTPL category as either FVTPL-Held for Trading (‘HFT’) or FVTPL Non-HFT. Any investment held by the Bank
for one or more of the following purposes is, when it is first recognised on its books, designated as a FVTPL HFT:
• short-term resale;
• profiting from short-term price movements;
• locking in arbitrage profits; or
• hedging risks that arise from instruments meeting all of the above
Investments in listed equities, trading-related repo-style transactions, instruments resulting from market-making
activities, equity investments in a fund are included in FVTPL HFT category. Investments in unlisted equities are
included in FVTPL Non-HFT category.
344 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
All other investments forming part of FVTPL category are classified as FVTPL Non-HFT.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
All investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures held by Bank are classified under this category
separately from the aforesaid investment categories.
Initial recognition
The Bank measures all investments at fair value on initial recognition. Unless facts and circumstances suggest
that the fair value is materially different from the acquisition cost, it is presumed that the acquisition cost is
the fair value.
i. Acquisition cost
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are
charged to the Profit and Loss Account. Broken period interest is charged to the Profit and Loss Account.
Cost of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
ii. Day 1 gain/loss
Day 1 Gain/loss is the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and acquisition cost. Any Day 1
gain/loss arising on quoted investments is recognized in the Profit and Loss Account. Any Day 1 loss arising
from Level 3 investments is recognised immediately. Any Day 1 gains arising from Level 3 investments is
deferred. In the case of debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is amortized on a straight-line basis up to the
maturity date (or earliest call date for perpetual instruments), while for unquoted equity instruments, the gain
is set aside as a liability until the security is listed or derecognised.
iii. Subsequent measurement
a. Investments classified under the HTM category
Investments held in HTM category are carried at cost and are not Mark-to-Market (MTM) after initial
recognition. Any discount or premium on the investments under HTM category is amortised over the
remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of
Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
Realised gains on sale of investments in HTM category are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and
subsequently appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves) in
accordance with the RBI guidelines. Realised losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
b. Investments classified under AFS category
Investments held in AFS category are fair valued. Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt securities
under AFS is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the
financial statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in
Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
The net valuation gains and losses across all performing investments under AFS is aggregated and the net
appreciation or depreciation (net of tax) is directly credited or debited to the AFS Reserve without routing
through the Profit & Loss Account.
The AFS-Reserve is reckoned as Common Equity Tier (CET) 1 capital but not available for distribution of
dividend and coupon on Additional Tier I instruments.
On sale or maturity of a debt instrument in AFS category, the accumulated gain/ loss for that security in the
AFS Reserve is transferred from the AFS Reserve and recognized in the Profit and Loss Account.
In the case of equity instruments designated under AFS at the time of initial recognition, any gain or loss
on sale of such investments is transferred from AFS Reserve to Capital Reserve in accordance with the RBI
Investment Direction, 2023.
345
Financial statements
c. Investments classified under FVTPL category
Investments held under FVTPL category are fair valued and the net gain or loss arising on such valuation is
directly credited or debited to the Profit and Loss Account. Any discount or premium on the debt securities
under FVTPL category is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is
reflected in the financial statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’
with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
d. Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
The Bank measures all the investments (i.e., including debt and equity) in subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures at acquisition cost.
Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt securities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the financial
statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’.
Valuation
The Bank determines the fair values of its investments according to the following hierarchy:
Level 1: Valuation based on quoted market price: These investments are valued with quoted prices (unadjusted) for
identical instruments in active markets that the Bank can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: Valuation based on using observable inputs: These investments are valued with inputs other than quoted prices
included within Level 1, that are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: These investments are valued using valuation
techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
The fair value of various types of instruments is determined as per the valuation norms laid down in RBI Investment
Direction 2023, as follows:
• The fair value of quoted investments (other than discounted instruments) included in the AFS and FVTPL
categories is considered as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices, yield and spread
matrix declared by the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/Financial
Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically.
• Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted instruments,
are valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
• Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by the mutual fund.
• Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) and Unquoted Alternative Investment Fund (AIFs) are valued at Net Asset
Value (NAV) declared by the funds. Where an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of its investments by
an independent valuer as per the frequency mandated by SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012,
the value of its units is treated as Re. 1. In case AIF is not registered under SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund)
Regulations, 2012 and the latest disclosed valuation of its investments by an independent valuer precedes the date
of valuation by more than 18 months, the value of its units is treated as Re. 1.
• Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures category are assessed for impairment to determine
permanent diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.
• The fair value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the
norms prescribed by the RBI/FIMMDA/FBIL as under:
a) The fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (‘SLR’)
securities forming part of AFS, FVTPL-HFT and FVTPL Non-HFT categories are computed as per the rates
published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
b) In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted
bonds, debentures and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue
346 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
beyond 90 days), the market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for such securities as
published by FIMMDA/FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the
instrument. The matrix for credit risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual maturity
issued by FIMMDA/FBIL is adopted for this purpose.
c) In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the
valuation is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
d) Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) are valued as per extant RBI/FIMMDA guidelines.
e) Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the
stock exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is
ascertained from the company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance
Sheet is not available, the shares are valued at Re. 1 per company.
f) Valuation of investments in private equity funds and limited liability partnership funds is based on valuation
of their underlying exposures.
g) Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust
(‘INVIT’) are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not
traded on any stock exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year)
submitted by the trust.
h) Investments in Government guaranteed Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued periodically by reckoning the
Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Reconstruction Company (‘ARC’) based on the recovery ratings
received for such instruments. Any Government guaranteed SRs outstanding after the final settlement of the
Government guarantee or the expiry of the guarantee period, whichever is earlier, are valued at one rupee (₹1).
Investments in other SRs are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing ARC or net book value of loans
transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal assessment on case to case basis,
whichever is lower. Investments in such Security Receipts where original maturity period has expired are
valued at one rupee (₹1).
In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than 10 percent of the stressed assets sold by the
Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of face value of the SRs reduced by the
provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms as applicable to the underlying
loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
Investment asset classification and provisioning
Investments under HTM, AFS and FVTPL category are subjected to income recognition, asset classification and
provisioning norms of RBI. Non-performing Investments (NPIs) are identified and provision is made thereon in the
Profit and Loss account, as per the RBI guidelines. Once an investment become NPI, the Bank segregates it from rest of
the portfolio and does not consider it for netting valuation gains and losses. A NPI investment is segregated from other
investments within the same category [i.e., HTM, AFS, or FVTPL] under which it was classified at initial recognition.
Interest on NPIs is not recognized in the Profit and Loss Account until received. MTM appreciation in case of NPIs over
and above the book value is not recognized and ignored.
Reclassification between categories
Reclassification of investments between categories (viz. HTM, AFS and FVTPL) if any is carried out only after, prior
approval of Board of Directors and RBI and the same is accounted for in accordance with the RBI guidelines.
Short sales
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated
securities. Such short positions are categorised under FVTPL category and netted off from investments in the Balance
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under FVTPL portfolio and the resultant
MTM gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.
347
Financial statements
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY24
Classification
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are classified at the time of purchase as:
• Held for Trading (‘HFT’);
• Available for Sale (‘AFS’); and
• Held to Maturity (‘HTM’).
Investments that are held principally for sale within a short period are classified as HFT securities. As per the RBI
guidelines, HFT securities, which remain unsold for a period of 90 days are transferred to AFS securities.
Investments that the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified under the HTM category. Investments in the equity
of subsidiaries/joint ventures and investments under TLTRO guidelines are categorised as HTM in accordance with the
RBI guidelines.
All other investments are classified as AFS securities.
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government Securities,
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures and Others.
Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities, Subsidiaries and/or Joint
Ventures abroad and Others.
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted
for on trade date.
Transfer of security between categories
Transfer of security between categories of investments is accounted for as per the RBI guidelines.
Acquisition cost
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are charged to
the Profit and Loss Account.
Broken period interest on debt instruments and government securities is charged to the Profit and Loss Account.
Cost of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
Valuation
Investments classified under the HTM category: Investments are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the
face value, in which case the premium is amortised over the period remaining to maturity on a constant yield to maturity
basis. Such amortization of premium is adjusted against interest income under the head ‘Income from Investments’
under Schedule 13 in Profit and Loss Account. As per the RBI guidelines, discount on securities held under HTM
category is not accrued and such securities are held at the acquisition cost till maturity.
Investments in subsidiaries/joint ventures are categorised as HTM and assessed for impairment to determine permanent
diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Investments under these categories are marked to market.
The market/fair value of quoted investments included in the AFS and HFT categories is the market price of the scrip
as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices declared by the Fixed Income Money Market
and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically. Net
depreciation, if any, within each category of each investment classification is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
The net appreciation, if any, under each category of each investment classification is ignored. Net depreciation on each
type of investments falling under the residual category of ‘Others’ (i.e. mutual funds, Pass Through Certificates (PTCs),
security receipts etc.) is not offset against gain in another class of investment falling within the ‘Others’ category. Further,
in case of standard investments classified as weak as per the Bank’s internal framework (including certain internally
unrated investments), the Bank recognizes net depreciation without availing the benefit of set-off against appreciation
348 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
within the same class of investments as permitted under the extant RBI circular. The depreciation on securities acquired
by way of conversion of outstanding loans is provided in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Provision for depreciation
on investments is classified under Schedule-14 ‘Other Income’. The book value of individual securities is not changed
consequent to the periodic valuation of investments.
Non-performing investments are identified and provision is made thereon as per the RBI guidelines. Provision for
depreciation on such non-performing investments is not set off against the appreciation in respect of other performing
securities as per RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing investments is not recognized in the Profit and Loss Account
until received.
Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted instruments, are
valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by the mutual fund.
Market value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the norms
prescribed by the RBI as under:
• The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio
(‘SLR’) securities forming part of AFS and HFT categories is computed as per the rates published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
• In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted bonds,
debentures and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue beyond 90 days),
the market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for Government Securities as published by
FIMMDA/FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the instrument. The matrix
for credit risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual maturity issued by FIMMDA/FBIL
is adopted for this purpose.
• In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the valuation
is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
• PTC and Priority Sector PTCs are valued as per extant FIMMDA guidelines.
• Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the stock
exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is ascertained
from the company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance Sheet is not
available, the shares are valued at `1 per company.
• Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust (‘INVIT’)
are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not traded on any
stock exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) submitted by the trust.
• Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) / Alternative Investment Funds (‘AIF’) held under AFS category where
current quotations are not available are valued based on NAV as published in the latest audited financial statements
of the fund or NAV as provided by the fund. In case the audited financials are not available for a period beyond 18
months, the investments are valued at `1 per VCF / AIF. Investment in unquoted VCF / AIF may be categorized
under HTM category for the initial period of three years and are valued at cost as per the RBI guidelines.
• Investments in Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing Asset Reconstruction
Company (‘ARC’) or net book value of loans transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal
assessment on case to case basis, whichever is lower. In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than
10 percent of the stressed assets sold by the Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of
face value of the SRs reduced by the provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms
as applicable to the underlying loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
Disposal of investments
Investments classified under the HTM category: Realised gains are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and
subsequently appropriated to Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves) in accordance
with the RBI guidelines. Losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
349
Financial statements
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Realised gains/losses are recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account.
Short sales
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated
securities. Such short positions are categorised under HFT category and netted off from investments in the Balance
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under HFT portfolio and the resultant
Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’) gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.
5.2 Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions
Repurchase transactions (‘Repos’)
Repurchase transactions in Government securities and corporate debt securities including those conducted under the
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Marginal Standby Facility (‘MSF’) with RBI are accounted for as collateralised
borrowings. Accordingly, securities given as collateral under an agreement to repurchase them, continue to be held
under the investment account and the Bank continues to accrue the coupon on the security during the repo period.
Borrowing cost on such repo transactions is accounted as interest expense in “Schedule 15 – Interest Expended” in the
Profit and Loss Account.
Reverse repurchase transactions (‘Reverse repos’)
Reverse repurchase transactions with RBI with original maturity upto 14 days, including those conducted under the
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Standing Deposit Facility (‘SDF’), are accounted for as collateralised lending
under “Schedule 6 - Balances with RBI - in Other Accounts”. Reverse repurchase transactions with banks and other
financial institutions with original maturity upto 14 days, are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule
7 - Balances with Banks and Money at call and short notice”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest
income under “Schedule 13 – Interest Earned – Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and Other Inter-bank
Funds” in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reverse repos with original maturity of more than 14 days are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule
9 - Advances”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest income under “Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
– Interest/discount on advances/bills” in the Profit and Loss account.
5.3 Advances
Classification and measurement of advances
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and are stated
net of bills rediscounted, inter-bank participation certificates, specific provisions made towards NPAs, interest in
suspense for NPAs, claims received from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation, provisions for funded interest on term
loans classified as NPAs and floating provisions. Structured collateralised foreign currency loans extended to customers
and deposits received from the same customer are reported on a net basis.
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank participation with and without risk. In accordance with the RBI
guidelines, in the case of participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued by the Bank is
reduced from advances and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of the participation is classified
under advances. In the case of participation without risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank is
classified under borrowings and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of participation is shown as due
from banks under advances.
Non-performing advances and provision on non-performing advances
NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by the RBI. Advances
held at the overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than
record of recovery, but which are standard as per the RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount
outstanding in the host country. NPAs are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
350 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Provisions for NPAs are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets at rates as prescribed by the RBI with the exception
of schematic retail advances, agriculture advances and advances to Commercial Banking segment. In respect of
schematic retail advances, provisions are made in terms of a bucket-wise policy upon reaching specified stages of
delinquency (90 days or more of delinquency) under each type of loan, which satisfies the RBI prudential norms on
provisioning. Provisions in respect of Commercial Banking segment advances and agriculture advances classified into
sub-standard and doubtful assets are made at rates which are higher than those prescribed by the RBI.
Provisions for advances booked in overseas branches, which are standard as per the RBI guidelines but are identified
as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than record of recovery, are made as per the host
country regulations.
In case of NPAs referred to the National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code,
2016 (‘IBC’) where resolution plan or liquidation order has been approved by NCLT, provision is maintained at higher of
the requirement under the RBI guidelines or the likely haircut as per resolution plan or liquidation order.
Loans reported as fraud are classified as loss assets, and fully provided for immediately without considering the
value of security.
Provision on restructured assets
Restructured assets including compromise settlements where the time for payment of the agreed settlement
amount exceeds three months are classified and provided for in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI
from time to time.
In respect of advances where resolution plan has been implemented under the RBI guidelines on “Resolution Framework
for COVID 19-related Stress” and “Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Sector – Restructuring of Advances”,
provisions are maintained as per the internal framework of the Bank at rates which are higher than those specified
under the extant RBI guidelines. Restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
Provisions held on restructured assets are reported in Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
Write-offs and recoveries from written-off accounts
Write-offs are carried out in accordance with the Bank’s policy.
Amounts recovered against debts written off are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as a credit to Provision
and Contingencies.
Appropriation of funds for standard advances
In case of Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) based standard retail advances, funds received from customers are
appropriated in the order of principal, interest and charges. In case of other standard advances, funds received from
customers are appropriated in the order of charges, interest and principal.
Other provisions on advances classified under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’ in the Balance Sheet
The Bank recognises additional provisions as per the RBI’s guidelines on accounts in default and with aggregate
exposure above the threshold limits as laid down in the guidelines where the resolution plan is not implemented within
the specified timelines. These provisions are written back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
In respect of borrowers classified as non-cooperative or wilful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated provisions as per
the extant RBI guidelines.
In the case of one-time settlements with borrowers that are entered into but not closed as on the reporting date, the
Bank makes provisions which is the higher of (i) the provision required based on asset classification; and (ii) the amount
of contracted sacrifice, on a portfolio basis.
The Bank makes incremental provisioning (determined based on a time scale and on occurrence of predefined events)
on all outstanding advances and investments relating to borrowers tagged as Red Flagged Accounts (‘RFA’).
For entities with Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure (‘UFCE’), provision is made in accordance with the guidelines
issued by the RBI, which requires ascertaining the amount of UFCE, estimating the extent of likely loss and estimating
the riskiness of the unhedged position. Further, incremental capital is maintained in respect of such borrower counter
parties in the highest risk category, in line with stipulations by the RBI.
351
Financial statements
The Bank maintains provisions for incremental exposure of the banking system to specified borrowers beyond the
Normally Permitted Lending Limit (‘NPLL’) in proportion to the Bank’s funded exposure to the specified borrowers as
per the RBI guidelines.
The Bank maintains a general provision on standard advances at the rates prescribed by the RBI. In respect of advances
to stressed sectors, such general provision is made at rates higher than the regulatory minimum as per the internal
policy of the Bank. The general provision on corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’
and all Special Mention Accounts-2 (‘SMA-2’) advances as reported to Central Repository of Information on Large
Credits (‘CRILC’), is maintained at rates that are higher than those prescribed by RBI. In case of overseas branches,
general provision on standard advances is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the respective overseas
regulator or by the extant RBI guidelines. The Bank also maintains general provision on positive Mark-to-Market (MTM)
on derivative transactions at the rates prescribed under the extant RBI guidelines.
The Bank also maintains additional provision on standard accounts in a particular borrower group where one or
more entity in the group is classified as NPA, subject to the aggregate outstanding of such entities being above a
certain threshold limit. Such provision is in addition to and at rates higher than the provision for standard assets as
prescribed by RBI.
The Bank also maintains provision on non-funded outstanding in relation to NPAs, prudentially written off accounts,
corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’ and all SMA-2 advances as reported to CRILC.
Under its home loan portfolio, the Bank offers housing loans with certain features involving waiver of EMIs for a specific
period subject to fulfilment of certain conditions by the borrower. The Bank makes provision against the probable
loss that could be incurred in future on account of these waivers to eligible borrowers, based on actuarial valuation
conducted by an independent actuary.
As approved by the Board of Directors, the Bank holds prudent provision under other contingencies of `5,012 crores
towards potential expected losses on certain standard advances and / or exposures.
5.4 Country risk
In addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are held for
individual country exposure (other than for home country) as per the RBI guidelines. Such provisions are held only in
respect of those countries where the net funded exposure of the Bank exceeds 1% of its total assets. For this purpose,
the countries are categorized into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderate, high, very high, restricted
and off-credit as per internal parameters in accordance with RBI guidelines. Provision is made on exposures exceeding
180 days on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 100%. For exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 days,
25% of the normal provision requirement is held. If the net funded exposure of the Bank in respect of each country
does not exceed 1% of the total assets, no provision is maintained on such country exposure in accordance with RBI
guidelines. Indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure. This provision is classified under Schedule 5 – Other
Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
5.5 Securitisation and transfer of assets
Securitisation of Standard Assets
The Bank enters into purchase/sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment/Special Purpose Vehicle
(‘SPV’). In most cases, post securitisation, the Bank continues to service the loans transferred to the assignee/SPV.
The Bank also provides credit enhancement in the form of cash collaterals and/or by subordination of cash flows to
Senior Pass Through Certificate holders. In respect of credit enhancements provided or recourse obligations (projected
delinquencies, future servicing etc.) accepted by the Bank, appropriate provision/disclosure is made at the time of sale
in accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as notified under Section 133 of
the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting
Standards) Rules, 2021. In accordance with RBI guidelines on Securitisation of Standard Assets, any loss, profit or
premium realised at the time of the sale is accounted for in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during
which the sale is completed. However, in case of unrealised gains arising out of sale of underlying assets to the SPV,
the profit is recognised in Profit and Loss Account only when such unrealised gains associated with such income is
redeemed in cash.
352 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Transfer of Loan Exposures
In accordance with RBI guidelines on Transfer of Loan exposures, any profit or loss arising post transfer of loans, which
is realised, is accounted for and reflected in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during which the
transfer is completed. Loans acquired are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the outstanding principal at
the time of the transfer, in which case the premium paid is amortised based on a straight line method.
5.6 Priority Sector Lending Certificates
The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (‘PSLCs’). In the case
of a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction
the Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through the RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of loan
assets in PSLC transactions.
5.7 Translation of Foreign Currency items
In respect of domestic operations, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for at the rates
prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the closing
rates of exchange as notified by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India (‘FEDAI’). All profits/losses resulting
from year end revaluations are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Financial statements of foreign branches classified as non-integral foreign operations as per the RBI guidelines, are
translated as follows:
• Assets and liabilities (both monetary and non-monetary as well as contingent liabilities) are translated at closing
exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the Balance Sheet date.
• Income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the date of the transactions.
• All resulting exchange differences are accumulated in a separate ‘Foreign Currency Translation Reserve’ (FCTR) till
the disposal of the net investments. Any realised gains or losses on such disposal are recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account except for those that relate to repatriation of accumulated profits which are reclassified from FCTR
to ‘Balance in Profit and Loss Account’ under Schedule 2 – Reserves and Surplus in the Balance Sheet.
Contingent liabilities on account of forward exchange and derivative contracts, guarantees, acceptances, endorsements
and other obligations denominated in foreign currencies are disclosed at closing rates of exchange notified by FEDAI.
5.8 Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
Derivative transactions comprise of forward contracts, swaps, FRAs, futures and options which are disclosed as
contingent liabilities. The forwards, swaps and options are categorised as trading or hedge transactions.
Trading derivatives
Trading derivative contracts are revalued based on actual traded and/or derived from curves published by external
market sources or FBIL with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive MTM) and in other liabilities (representing negative MTM )
on a gross basis.
Outstanding forward exchange contracts including tom/spot contracts (excluding swaps undertaken to hedge foreign
currency assets/liabilities and funding swaps) as at Balance Sheet date are revalued at closing spot and forward rates as
applicable as notified by FEDAI/FBIL and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. Valuation is considered
on present value basis by discounting the forward value till cash date using Alternative Reference Rate (‘ARR’) curve and
converting the foreign currency amount using the respective spot rates as notified by FEDAI/FBIL. The resulting gains
or losses on revaluation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
Currency futures contracts are mark-to-market, using the daily settlement price on a trading day, which is the closing
price of the respective futures contracts on that day. While the daily settlement price is computed based on the last
half an hour weighted average price of such contracts, the final settlement price is taken as the RBI reference rate on
the last trading day of the futures contracts or as may be specified by the relevant authority from time to time. All
open positions are marked-to-market based on the settlement price and the resultant MTM profit/loss is daily settled
with the exchange.
353
Financial statements
Valuation of Exchange Traded Currency Options (‘ETCO’) is carried out using internal pricing models and valuation
of Interest Rate Futures (‘IRF’) is carried out on the basis of the daily settlement price of each contract provided
by the exchange.
Premium on options is recognized as income/expense on expiry or early termination of the transaction.
Hedging derivatives including funding swaps
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading (including funding swaps), that are entered into to establish
the amount of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at
the Balance Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. The premium or discount arising at the inception
of such forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line basis as expense or income over the life of the contract.
For hedge transactions through other derivatives, the Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception
of transaction itself. The effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter.
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognized
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of hedging instrument for
the effective portion is recognised in Schedule 2- ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under ‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’ and the
ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The
accumulated balance in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the Profit and
Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Provisioning
Pursuant to the RBI guidelines, any receivables under derivative contracts comprising of crystallised receivables as well
as positive MTM in respect of future receivables which remain overdue for more than 90 days are reversed through the
Profit and Loss account and are held in a separate suspense account under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’.
5.9 Revenue recognition
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with AS–9, Revenue Recognition as notified under
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, the Companies
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and the RBI guidelines, except in the case of interest income on non-performing
assets where it is recognised on receipt basis as per the income recognition and asset classification norms of RBI. Any
discount or premium on the investments in debt-securities is amortised as interest income over the remaining life of the
instrument. Interest income on investments in PTCs is recognized on a constant yield basis.
Commission on Guarantees and Letters of Credit (‘LC’) is recognized on a pro-rata basis over the period of the Guarantee/
LC. Locker rent is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of contract. Annual fee for credit cards and debit
cards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of service. Arrangership/syndication fee is accounted for on
completion of the agreed service and when the right to receive is established.
Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate collection.
Penal charges on loans are recognized as income on actual realization.
Other fees and commission income are recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate
collection. Payouts made to network partners and entities with co-branded arrangements, in the nature of sharing of
fees or based on driver of volume/spends are netted off from the respective fee and commission income.
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
Gain/loss on sell down of loans and advances through direct assignment is recognised at the time of sale.
Fees paid for purchase of PSLCs are amortised on straight-line basis over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Other Expenditure’
under Schedule 16 of the Profit and Loss Account. Fees received on sale of PSLCs are amortised on straight-line basis
over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Miscellaneous Income’ under Schedule 14 of the Profit and Loss Account.
In accordance with RBI guidelines on sale of non-performing advances, if the sale is at a price below the net book
value (i.e. book value less provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and Loss Account. If the sale is for a
value higher than the net book value, the excess provision is credited to the Profit and Loss Account in the year the
amounts are received.
354 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
The Bank deals in bullion on a consignment basis. The difference between the amount recovered from customers and
cost of bullion is accounted for at the time of sale to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and
lending basis and the interest paid/received is accounted for on an accrual basis.
5.10 Fixed assets and depreciation
Fixed assets are carried at cost of acquisition less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Cost includes initial
handling and delivery charges, duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the
asset. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only when it increases the future economic
benefit / functioning capability from / of such assets.
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of fixed assets that are not ready for their intended use and also includes
advances paid to acquire fixed assets.
Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful life of a fixed asset on straight-line method from the date of addition.
The Management believes that depreciation rates currently used, fairly reflect its estimate of the useful lives and
residual values of fixed assets based on the historical experience of the Bank, though these rates in certain cases are
different from those prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. Whenever there is a revision of the
estimated useful life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over the revised remaining useful life
of the said asset.
Asset Estimated useful life As per Companies Act, 2013
Leased Land As per the term of the agreement -
Owned premises 60 years 60 years
Furniture and Fittings including interior 9 years to 10 years 10 years
Office/Electrical equipment and installations 5 years to 10 years 5 years to 10 years
Application software 5 years -
Vehicles 4 years 8 years
Computer hardware including printers 3 years 3 years
CCTV and video conferencing equipment 3 years 5 years
Assets costing less than `5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
Depreciation on assets sold during the year is recognised on a pro-rata basis in the Profit and Loss Accounts till
the date of sale.
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of fixed assets are determined as the difference between the net
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of assets and are recognised as income or expense in the Profit and Loss
Account. Further, profit on sale of premises is appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to
Statutory Reserve) in accordance with RBI instructions.
5.11 Impairment of Fixed Assets
The carrying amounts of fixed assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to ascertain if there is any indication of
impairment based on internal/external factors. An impairment loss is recognised wherever the carrying amount of an
asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and value
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value at the weighted
average cost of capital. After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying amount of the asset over its
remaining useful life.
5.12 Non-banking assets
Non-banking assets (‘NBAs’) acquired in satisfaction of claims include land. In the case of land, the Bank creates
provision and follows the accounting treatment as per specific RBI directions.
5.13 Lease Transactions
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership over the lease term are
classified as operating lease. Lease payments for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the
355
Financial statements
Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless the payments are structured to increase in
line with expected general inflation to compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increase. Lease income
from assets given on operating lease is recognized as income in the Profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis over
the lease term.
5.14 Employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits comprise salaries and other compensations payable for services which the employee has
rendered during the period. These are recognized at the undiscounted amount in the Profit and Loss Account.
Defined benefit plans
The Bank has defined benefit plans in the form of provident fund, gratuity and resettlement allowance. Provident and
Gratuity are in the nature of funded defined benefit plans and resettlement allowance is in the nature of unfunded
defined benefit plan.
• Provident Fund
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined benefit plan wherein the contributions are charged
to the Profit and Loss Account of the year when such contributions are due and when services are rendered
by the employees. Further, an actuarial valuation is conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected
Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year to determine the deficiency, if any, in the interest payable on the
contributions as compared to the interest liability as per the statutory rate declared by the Central Government
and the shortfall, if any, due to fluctuations in price or impairment, in the aggregate asset values of the Trust as
compared to the market value. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and are not deferred.
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary
towards respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines.
• Gratuity
The Bank contributes towards gratuity fund (defined benefit retirement plan) administered by various insurers for
eligible employees. Under this scheme, the settlement obligation remains with the Bank, although the insurers
administer the scheme and determine the contribution premium required to be paid by the Bank. The plan
provides a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement or termination of employment based on the
respective employee’s salary and the years of employment with the Bank. The liability with regard to the gratuity
fund is recognised based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected Unit
Credit Method as at each reporting date based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth,
mortality and staff attrition. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognized in the Profit and Loss Account and
are not deferred.
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Pending
notification of the Code and issuance of the final rules/interpretation, the Bank has adopted a prudent policy for
recognition of provision in respect of the gratuity liability under the Code over and above the provisions made
in the normal course based on the extant rules. Such provision is determined as at each reporting date, based on
actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
In respect of employees at overseas branches (other than expatriates), the liability with regard to gratuity is
provided on the basis of a prescribed method as per local laws, wherever applicable.
• Resettlement Allowance
The Bank provides for resettlement allowance liability in the form of six months’ pay at the time of separation, for
certain eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition.
Provision for this liability is based on an actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the
356 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Projected Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year based on certain assumptions regarding discount rate and
salary escalation rate.
Defined Contribution plans
• Superannuation
Employees of the Bank (other than those who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business
acquisition) are entitled to receive retirement benefits under the Bank’s superannuation scheme either under a
cash-out option through salary or under a defined contribution plan. Through this defined contribution plan, the
Bank contributes annually a sum equal to 10% of the employee’s eligible annual basic salary to the Life Insurance
Corporation of India (LIC), which undertakes to pay the lump sum and annuity benefit payments pursuant to the
scheme. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
Eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition are entitled
to receive a lumpsum corpus amount under a separate superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of 10 years as
a defined contribution plan. Through this plan, the Bank makes a defined contribution annually of a sum equal to
15% of such employee’s eligible annual basic salary to a Superannuation Trust, which undertakes to pay the lump
sum payments pursuant to the scheme after the vesting period. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
• National Pension Scheme (‘NPS’)
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the NPS, the Bank contributes a certain percentage of the
total basic salary of such employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined contribution plan, which is managed and
administered by pension fund management companies. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account in the period in which they accrue.
5.15 Reward points
The Bank runs a loyalty program which seeks to recognize and reward customers based on their relationship with
the Bank. Under the program, eligible customers are granted loyalty points redeemable in future, subject to certain
conditions. In addition, the Bank continues to grant reward points in respect of certain credit cards (not covered under
the loyalty program). The Bank estimates the provision for such loyalty/reward points using an actuarial method at the
Balance Sheet date through an independent actuary, basis assumptions such as redemption rate, lapse rate, discount
rate, value of reward points etc. Provision for the said reward points is then made based on the actuarial valuation
report as furnished by the said independent actuary.
5.16 Taxation
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax charge. Current year taxes are determined
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and considering the material principles set out in
the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to the extent applicable. Deferred income taxes reflect the impact
of current year timing differences between taxable income and accounting income for the year and reversal of timing
differences of earlier years.
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates and the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance
Sheet date. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off assets
against liabilities representing current tax and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to the taxes on
income levied by same governing taxation laws.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future taxable
income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. The impact of changes in the deferred
tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Deferred tax assets are recognised and reassessed at each reporting date, based upon the Management’s judgement
as to whether realisation is considered as reasonably certain. Deferred tax assets are recognised on carry forward of
unabsorbed depreciation and tax losses only if there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that such
deferred tax asset can be realised against future profits.
357
Financial statements
5.17 Share issue expenses
Share issue expenses are adjusted from the Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.18 Corporate Social Responsibility
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in accordance with
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.19 Earnings per share
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share, as notified under
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax by the
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue equity
shares were exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding at the year end except where the results
are anti-dilutive.
5.20 Employee stock option/unit scheme
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) provides for grant of stock options on equity shares of the Bank to
employees and Directors, of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Under the Scheme, options are granted at an exercise price,
which is equal to the fair market price of the underlying equity shares at the date of the grant. The fair market price is
the latest available closing price, prior to the date of grant, on the stock exchange on which the shares of the Bank are
listed. If the shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, then the stock exchange where there is highest trading
volume on the said date is considered.
Further, the Employees Stock Unit Scheme (‘the ESU Scheme’) provides for grant of stock units convertible into
equivalent number of fully paid-up equity share(s) of the Bank to eligible employees. The stock units are granted at an
exercise price as determined by the Bank and specified at the time of grant which shall not be less than the face value
of the equity shares of the Bank.
As per RBI guidelines, for options/units granted after 31 March, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method and
recognizes the fair value of such options/units computed using the Black-Scholes model without reducing estimated
forfeitures, as compensation expense over the vesting period. On exercise of the stock options/units, the corresponding
balance under Employee Stock Options/Units Outstanding account is transferred to the Share Premium account. In
respect of the options/units which expire unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock Options/
Units Outstanding account is transferred to the General Reserve. In respect of Employee Stock Options/Units which are
granted to the employees of the subsidiaries, the Bank recovers the cost from the subsidiaries over the vesting period.
5.21 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
In accordance with AS-29 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, provision is recognised when the
Bank has a present obligation as a result of past event where it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required
to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are not discounted to its present
value and are determined based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date. These
are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
• a possible obligation arising from a past event, the existence of which will be confirmed by occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not within the control of the Bank; or
• a present obligation arising from a past event which is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow of resources
will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made.
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is
remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
358 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements. However, contingent assets are assessed continually
and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the asset and related income are recognised in
the period in which the change occurs.
5.22 Accounting for dividend
As per AS-4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance Sheet date’ as notified by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, the Bank does not account for proposed dividend
as a liability through appropriation from the Profit and Loss Account. The same is recognised in the year of actual
payout post approval of the shareholders. However, the Bank considers proposed dividend in determining capital funds
in computing the capital adequacy ratio as on the reporting date.
5.23 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, rupee digital currency, balances with RBI, balances with other banks
and money at call and short notice.
5.24 Segment Reporting
The disclosure relating to segment information is made in accordance with AS-17: ‘Segment Reporting’ and relevant
guidelines issued by the RBI.
359
Financial statements
18. Notes forming part of the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
1 Statutory disclosures as per RBI
1.1 Regulatory Capital
a) Composition of Regulatory Capital
The Bank’s capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (‘Capital Adequacy Ratio’) is calculated in accordance with the RBI
guidelines on Basel III capital regulations (‘Basel III’). The minimum capital ratio requirement under Basel III is as follows:
Minimum ratio of Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets (RWAs) % of RWA
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) 8.00
Tier 1 capital 9.50
Total capital 11.50
The capital adequacy ratio of the Bank, calculated as per the RBI guidelines (under Basel III) is set out below:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Capital
Common Equity Tier I (CET I) 169,352.18 142,841.03
Additional Tier I capital 4,591.23 4,792.38
Tier I capital 173,943.41 147,633.41
Tier II capital 23,113.44 25,230.77
Total capital (Tier I + Tier II) 197,056.85 172,864.18
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) 11,54,074.65 10,39,312.61
Capital ratios
CET I 14.67% 13.74%
Tier I 15.07% 14.20%
Tier II 2.00% 2.43%
Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) 17.07% 16.63%
Leverage Ratio 9.18% 8.52%
Percentage of the Shareholding of Government of India Nil Nil
Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year 1 2.16 1.94
Amount of Non- equity Tier I capital raised during the year - -
Amount of Tier II capital raised during the year - -
1. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank raised `685.87 crores (consisting of share capital of `2.16 crores and share premium of
`683.71 crores) pursuant to the exercise of options/units under its employee stock option/units scheme (Previous year `557.21 crores,
consisting of share capital of `1.94 crores and share premium of `555.27 crores).
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank has not raised any non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-I/Tier-II capital.
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank redeemed non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-II capital, the details of
which are set out below:
Instrument Capital Date of maturity Period Coupon Amount
Subordinated debt Tier-II 12 February, 2025 120 months 8.45% `850.00 crores
During the year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised or redeemed any non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-I/
Tier-II capital.
360 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
b) Capital and Reserves and Surplus
i) Share Capital
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised equity capital other than through
allotment of equity shares to eligible employees upon exercise of options/units under its Employees Stock Option/Unit
Scheme. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the exercise of options/units, the Bank has raised `685.87
crores, consisting of share capital of `2.16 crores and share premium of `683.71 crores (Previous year `557.21 crores,
consisting of share capital of `1.94 crores and share premium of `555.27 crores).
ii) Draw down from Reserves
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024 the Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves.
iii) Capital Reserve
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank appropriated `214.35 crores (previous year `139.55 crores) to
the Capital Reserve, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory Reserve, being the gain on sale of HTM investments in
accordance with RBI guidelines.
iv) Special Reserve
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank appropriated `1,024.73 crores (previous year `968.13 crores) to the
Special Reserve created and maintained in terms of Section 36 (1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
v) Investment Reserve
Effective 1st April, 2024 the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on
Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment
Direction 2023’). Accordingly, as prescribed under the transition provisions of the RBI Investment Direction 2023, the
Bank has transferred the balance in the Investment Reserve Account as at 31 March, 2024 of `242.29 crores to the
General Reserve.
During the previous year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank had appropriated `242.29 crores to the Investment Reserve
in accordance with the RBI guidelines.
vi) General Reserve
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank transferred `7.98 crores (previous year `2.20 crores) to the General
Reserve from the Employee Stock Options/Units Outstanding Account, in respect of vested employee stock options/
units that have lapsed during the year. Further, the Bank has also transferred to the General Reserve an amount of
`242.29 crores from the Investment Reserve and an amount of `1,217.86 crores (net of tax) on account of reversal of
balance in provision for depreciation on investments as at 31 March, 2024 and adjustment for the difference between
the carrying value of its investment portfolio as per the revised framework and the previous carrying value as at 31
March, 2024, as per the transition provisions of RBI Investment Direction 2023.
vii) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank appropriated `248.00 crores (previous year `879.00 crores) to the
Investment Fluctuation Reserve in accordance with RBI guidelines.
viii) Available for Sale (AFS) Reserve
The valuation gains and losses at the year ended 31 March, 2025, across all performing investments held under AFS
category investments are aggregated and the net appreciation amounting to `110.39 crores (net of tax) has been
directly recognised in the AFS Reserve.
ix) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank recognised a loss of `1.64 crores (previous year Nil) in the Cash Flow
Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
361
Financial statements
1.2 Asset Liability management
a) Maturity pattern of certain items of assets and liabilities1
As at 31 March, 2025 (` in crores)
Foreign Foreign
Deposits2 Advances2,3 Investments2,5 Borrowings2 Currency Currency
Assets4 Liabilities4
1 day 19,725.27 9,009.03 1,50,290.01 - 18,244.42 828.23
2 days to 7 days 48,390.24 25,386.67 30,356.65 292.11 6,405.06 2,006.05
8 days to 14 days 20,856.54 13,050.99 11,706.88 446.51 1,161.41 2,000.94
15 days to 30 days 43,916.84 22,683.85 13,959.21 3,330.65 5,485.67 4,107.89
31 days and upto 2 months 51,965.92 60,368.17 12,861.37 5,628.96 11,184.97 6,880.45
Over 2 months and upto 3 months 54,111.68 31,257.99 11,387.57 10,203.98 6,908.00 9,663.60
Over 3 months and upto 6 months 97,622.04 40,740.37 14,964.04 31,003.11 10,743.45 22,387.51
Over 6 months and upto 1 year 1,60,994.43 76,796.43 23,495.77 33,639.38 4,796.35 16,484.63
Over 1 year and upto 3 years 76,932.86 2,17,950.51 23,825.03 67,288.90 4,513.33 18,279.92
Over 3 years and upto 5 years 5,901.19 1,21,820.19 3,977.25 7,567.74 3,722.42 4,085.90
Over 5 years 5,92,535.01 4,21,747.12 98,932.49 24,745.18 25,525.34 11,435.14
Total 11,72,952.02 10,40,811.32 3,95,756.27 1,84,146.52 98,690.42 98,160.26
As at 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Foreign Foreign
Deposits2 Advances2,3 Investments2,5 Borrowings2 Currency Currency
Assets4 Liabilities4
1 day 20,523.02 9,394.96 111,706.75 - 13,512.02 565.97
2 days to 7 days 41,749.42 16,884.89 25,962.79 66.69 7,254.66 1,272.63
8 days to 14 days 19,843.30 15,640.85 8,165.44 716.26 3,135.31 925.25
15 days to 30 days 34,001.38 29,615.90 7,911.23 3,100.29 8,408.57 4,048.04
31 days and upto 2 months 48,295.64 42,527.96 10,105.92 7,239.27 5,660.88 8,118.47
Over 2 months and upto 3 months 47,234.34 17,823.76 6,861.73 6,117.10 4,895.40 7,226.87
Over 3 months and upto 6 months 84,434.44 33,642.06 12,412.06 27,909.32 5,814.20 12,988.67
Over 6 months and upto 1 year 152,613.69 67,809.25 22,069.38 44,153.60 4,077.35 21,150.80
Over 1 year and upto 3 years 42,875.57 200,276.23 24,444.06 76,303.05 7,887.29 18,535.92
Over 3 years and upto 5 years 5,564.14 108,893.22 7,875.92 11,114.15 3,891.01 2,652.34
Over 5 years 571,506.45 422,559.30 93,826.94 20,092.02 23,184.22 9,661.80
Total 10,68,641.39 965,068.38 331,342.22 196,811.75 87,720.91 87,146.75
1. Classification of assets and liabilities under the different maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and
assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, which has been relied upon
by the auditors.
2. Includes foreign currency balances.
3. For the purpose of disclosing the maturity pattern, advances that have been subject to risk participation vide Inter-
Bank Participation Certificates (‘IBPCs’) and Funded Risk Participation (‘FRPs’) have been classified in the maturity
bucket corresponding to the contractual maturities of IBPC/FRP instruments.
4. Maturity profile of foreign currency assets and liabilities excludes off balance sheet items.
5. Listed equity investments (except strategic investments) have been considered at 50% haircut as per RBI directions.
b) Disclosure on Liquidity Coverage Ratio
Qualitative disclosure
The Bank has adopted the Basel III framework on liquidity standards as prescribed by RBI and has put in place
requisite systems and processes to enable periodical computation and reporting of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio
(LCR). The mandated regulatory threshold is embedded into the Risk Appetite Statement of the Bank thus subjecting
LCR maintenance to Board oversight and periodical review. The Bank computes the LCR and reports the same to
362 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) every month for review as well as to the Risk Management
Committee of the Board.
The Bank computes LCR on a daily basis and in accordance with RBI guidelines the quarterly disclosures of LCR contain
data on the simple average calculated on daily observations over the quarter.
The Bank follows the criteria laid down by RBI for calculation of High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), gross outflows
and inflows within the next 30-day period. HQLA predominantly comprises Government securities viz. Treasury Bills,
Central and State Government securities. A relatively smaller part of HQLA is accounted for by the corporate bonds
with mandated haircuts applied thereto.
The Bank monitors the concentration of funding sources from significant counterparties, significant instruments/
products as part of the asset liability management framework. The Bank adheres to the regulatory and internal limits
on Inter-bank liability and call money borrowings which form part of the ALM policy. The Bank’s funding sources are
fairly dispersed across sources and maturities.
Expected derivative cash outflows and inflows are calculated for outstanding contracts in accordance with laid down
valuation methodologies. Cash flows, if any, from collaterals posted against derivatives are not considered.
Apart from the LCR position in all currencies put together, the Bank monitors the LCR in US Dollar currency which
qualifies as a significant currency as per RBI guidelines.
The liquidity management of the Bank is undertaken by the Asset Liability Management group in the Treasury department
in accordance with the Board approved policies and ALCO approved funding plans. The Risk department measures
and monitors the liquidity profile of the Bank with reference to the Board approved limits, for both domestic as well
as overseas operations, on a static as well as on a dynamic basis by using the gap analysis technique supplemented
by monitoring of key liquidity ratios and periodical liquidity stress testing. Periodical reports are placed before the
Bank’s ALCO for perusal and review. As per RBI guidelines, the Bank is required to maintain a minimum of 100% of
Liquidity Coverage Ratio, which was applicable for all the quarters for the financial years ending on 31 March, 2025 and
31 March, 2024.
All significant outflows and inflows determined in accordance with RBI guidelines are included in the prescribed LCR
computation template.
363
Financial statements
Quantitative disclosure
(` in crores)
Quarter ended 31 March, 2025 Quarter ended 31 December, 2024 Quarter ended 30 September, 2024 Quarter ended 30 June, 2024
Total Total
Total Total
Total Unweighted Total Weighted Total Unweighted Total Weighted Weighted Weighted
Unweighted Unweighted
Value (average) Value (average) Value (average) Value (average) Value Value
Value (average) Value (average)
(average) (average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1 Total High Quality Liquid 299,977.69 294,959.58 282,668.50 268,095.26
Assets (HQLAs)
Cash Outflows
2 Retail Deposits and 610,744.17 56,940.49 606,354.20 53,737.15 596,714.54 52,748.26 587,857.21 51,956.74
deposits from small
business customers, of
which:
(i) Stable Deposits 82,678.53 4,133.93 137,965.45 6,898.27 138,463.84 6,923.19 136,579.64 6,828.98
(ii) Less Stable Deposits 528,065.64 52,806.56 468,388.75 46,838.87 458,250.70 45,825.07 451,277.56 45,127.76
3 Unsecured wholesale 305,685.55 1,79,597.15 295,120.79 173,029.00 291,319.65 173,208.78 290,454.26 158,852.28
funding, of which :
(i) O perational deposits - - - - - - 21,290.02 5,317.34
(all counterparties)
(ii) Non-operational 305,685.55 1,79,597.15 295,120.79 173,029.00 291,319.65 173,208.78 269,164.24 153,534.94
deposits (all
counterparties)
(iii) Unsecured debt - - - - - - - -
4 Secured wholesale funding 115.36 0.53 8.70 0.16
5 Additional requirements, 69,054.62 55,942.12 64,569.90 51,748.96 65,556.63 53,341.67 60,386.61 47,581.30
of which
(i) O utflows related to 51,694.26 51,694.26 47,934.96 47,934.96 49,652.28 49,652.28 44,102.31 44,102.31
derivative exposures
and other collateral
requirements
(ii) O utflows related to - - - - - - - -
loss of funding on
debt products
(iii) C redit and liquidity 17,360.36 4,247.86 16,634.94 3,814.00 15,904.36 3,689.39 16,284.30 3,478.99
facilities
6 Other contractual funding 32,563.04 32,563.04 33,882.50 33,882.50 30,155.32 30,155.32 21,747.07 21,747.07
obligations
7 Other contingent funding 606,855.74 25,854.97 583,076.18 24,912.00 579,719.15 24,955.40 575,087.14 24,771.04
obligations
8 Total Cash Outflows 351,013.14 337,310.13 334,418.13 304,908.59
Cash Inflows
9 Secured lending (eg. 922.50 - 851.25 - 10,711.10 2.75 1,475.84 9.61
reverse repo)
10 Inflows from fully 76,519.90 50,176.02 70,375.55 46,142.74 65,847.29 44,446.28 61,175.32 42,782.03
performing exposures
11 Other cash inflows 49,495.45 49,495.45 45,919.08 45,919.08 46,681.80 46,681.80 41,220.83 41,220.83
12 Total Cash Inflows 126,937.86 99,671.48 117,145.88 92,061.82 123,240.18 91,130.82 103,871.99 84,012.48
Total adjusted Value Total adjusted Value Total adjusted Value Total adjusted Value
13 Total HQLA 2,99,977.69 294,959.58 282,668.50 268,095.26
14 Total Net Cash Outflows 2,51,341.66 245,248.32 243,287.31 220,896.11
15 Liquidity Coverage 119.35% 120.27% 116.19% 121.37%
Ratio %
Notes:
1) Average for all the quarters is simple average of daily observations for the quarter
2) Classification of inflows and outflows for determining the run off factors is based on the same estimates and assumptions
as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, which has been relied upon by the auditors
364 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(` in crores)
Quarter ended 31 March, 2024 Quarter ended 31 December, 2023 Quarter ended 30 September, 2023 Quarter ended 30 June, 2023
Total Total
Total Total
Total Unweighted Total Weighted Total Unweighted Total Weighted Weighted Weighted
Unweighted Unweighted
Value (average) Value (average) Value (average) Value (average) Value Value
Value (average) Value (average)
(average) (average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1 Total High Quality Liquid 257,647.25 245,836.91 235,198.34 240,413.24
Assets (HQLAs)
Cash Outflows
2 Retail Deposits and 571,214.14 50,722.98 559,872.28 49,816.42 543,488.15 48,356.65 526,601.89 46,836.33
deposits from small
business customers, of
which:
(i) Stable Deposits 127,968.66 6,398.43 123,416.11 6,170.81 119,843.26 5,992.16 116,477.17 5,823.86
(ii) Less Stable Deposits 443,245.48 44,324.55 436,456.18 43,645.62 423,644.89 42,364.49 410,124.72 41,012.47
3 Unsecured wholesale 275,937.28 152,249.29 251,237.97 139,062.99 234,086.49 130,927.24 240,504.95 133,888.82
funding, of which :
(i) O perational deposits 19,031.73 4,733.33 17,015.14 4,244.66 17,101.37 4,254.22 17,841.65 4,438.56
(all counterparties)
(ii) Non-operational 256,905.55 147,515.96 234,222.83 134,818.32 216,985.12 126,673.02 222,663.30 129,450.27
deposits (all
counterparties)
(iii) Unsecured debt - - - - - - - -
4 Secured wholesale funding 0.16 0.92 6.19 -
5 Additional requirements, 76,437.80 64,770.09 82,451.37 57,343.97 71,631.86 47,677.58 62,144.71 44,118.50
of which
(i) O utflows related to 62,335.88 62,335.88 52,911.31 52,911.31 41,192.60 41,192.60 39,251.27 39,251.27
derivative exposures
and other collateral
requirements
(ii) O utflows related to - - - - - - - -
loss of funding on
debt products
(iii) C redit and liquidity 14,101.92 2,434.22 29,540.06 4,432.66 30,439.25 6,484.98 22,893.44 4,867.23
facilities
6 Other contractual funding 22,021.52 22,021.52 22,977.91 22,977.91 21,302.66 21,302.66 21,141.20 21,141.20
obligations
7 Other contingent funding 561,581.08 24,169.90 582,296.48 25,414.33 574,170.17 25,279.25 550,788.51 24,143.81
obligations
8 Total Cash Outflows 313,933.95 294,616.55 273,549.57 270,128.66
Cash Inflows
9 Secured lending (eg. 1,608.98 4.93 783.35 - 157.68 - 1,397.60 -
reverse repo)
10 Inflows from fully 59,522.69 41,963.41 55,392.83 38,854.52 52,414.98 36,786.50 54,147.66 39,051.75
performing exposures
11 Other cash inflows 59,337.83 59,337.83 49,632.69 49,632.69 38,274.21 38,274.21 36,264.68 36,264.68
12 Total Cash Inflows 120,469.50 101,306.17 105,808.87 88,487.21 90,846.86 75,060.71 91,809.94 75,316.43
Total adjusted Value Total adjusted Value Total adjusted Value Total adjusted Value
13 Total HQLA 257,647.25 245,836.91 235,198.34 240,413.24
14 Total Net Cash Outflows 212,627.78 206,129.33 198,488.86 194,812.23
15 Liquidity Coverage 121.17% 119.26% 118.49% 123.41%
Ratio %
Notes:
1) Average for all the quarters is simple average of daily observations for the quarter
2) Classification of inflows and outflows for determining the run off factors is based on the same estimates and assumptions
as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, which has been relied upon by the auditors
365
Financial statements
1.3 Investments
Effective 1 April, 2024, the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Investment Direction 2023.
Figures for the previous year are therefore not comparable on account of the above and the disclosures made hereinafter
for the previous year ended 31 March, 2024 are based on the erstwhile framework for investments as then applicable.
a) Disclosure of carrying value of investments and fair value
As at 31 March, 2025 (` in crores)
Fair Value through Profit
Subsidiaries, Associates
Held to Maturity (HTM) & Loss
Available & JVs
(FVTPL)
Particulars for Sale
Held for Non- Held
(AFS)
At cost Fair Value trading for Trading
At cost Fair Value
(HFT) (Non-HFT)
I. Investments in India
(i) Government securities 258,551.22 262,382.28 13,314.05 20,774.97 -
(ii) Other approved securities - - - - -
(iii) Shares - -- - 1,827.19 770.20
(iv) Debentures and Bonds 2,460.00 2,503.77 16,883.39 48,794.98 5,082.96
(v) Subsidiaries, associates and 6,492.69
joint ventures
(vi) Others1 - - 4,246.54 124.35 1,311.71
Total 261,011.22 264,886.05 34,443.98 71,521.49 7,164.88 6,492.69
Less: Provisions for impairment / Non- - - (261.95) (27.33) (0.33) -
Performing Investments (NPI)
Net 261,011.22 264,886.05 34,182.03 71,494.16 7,164.55 6,492.69
II. Investments outside India
(i) Government securities - - 15,435.26 - -
(including local authorities)
(ii) Subsidiaries and joint 3.02
ventures
(iii) Others1 - - - 353.79 244.38
Total - - 15,435.26 353.79 244.38 3.02
Less: Provisions for impairment / Non- - - - - (239.31) -
Performing Investments (NPI)
Net - - 15,435.26 353.79 5.07 3.02
Total investments (I+II) 261,011.22 264,886.05 49,617.29 71,847.95 7,169.62 6,495.71
1. “Others” under Investments in India include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds, Venture
Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts, Pass Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP)
and “Others” under Investments outside India include investments in Equity Shares and Bonds.
Composition of Investments
As at 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Investments in India Investments outside India
Government Total
Government Other Debentures Subsidiaries Total Securities Subsidiaries Investments Total
Securities Approved Shares and Bonds and/or joint Others1 Investments in (including local and/or joint Others1 outside Investments
Securities ventures India ventures
authorities) India
Held to Maturity
Gross 203,117.90 - - 8,209.83 2,923.17 - 214,250.90 - 332.30 - 332.30 214,583.20
Less: Provision for
non-performing - - - - - - - - - - - -
investments (NPI)
Net 203,117.90 - - 8,209.83 2,923.17 - 214,250.90 - 332.30 - 332.30 214,583.20
Available for Sale
Gross 27,065.36 - 1,789.26 35,881.05 - 4,659.29 69,394.96 9,339.05 - 487.70 9,826.75 79,221.71
Less: Provision for
non-performing - - (27.81) (510.18) - - (537.99) - - (243.96) (243.96) (781.95)
investments (NPI)
366 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
As at 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Investments in India Investments outside India
Government Total
Government Other Debentures Subsidiaries Total Securities Subsidiaries Investments Total
Securities Approved Shares and Bonds and/or joint Others1 Investments in (including local and/or joint Others1 outside Investments
Securities ventures India ventures
authorities) India
Provision for
depreciation - - (55.97) (399.90) - (52.27) (508.14) - - (0.82) (0.82) (508.96)
Net 27,065.36 - 1,705.48 34,970.97 - 4,607.02 68,348.83 9,339.05 - 242.92 9,581.97 77,930.80
Held for Trading
Gross 8,211.30 - - 30,672.91 - 46.23 38,930.44 82.81 - - 82.81 39,013.25
Less: Provision for
non-performing - - - - - - - - - - - -
investments (NPI)
Provision for - - - - - - - - - - - -
depreciation
Net 8,211.30 - - 30,672.91 - 46.23 38,930.44 82.81 - - 82.81 39,013.25
Total Investments
Gross 238,394.56 - 1,789.26 74,763.79 2,923.17 4,705.52 322,576.30 9,421.86 332.30 487.70 10,241.86 332,818.16
Less: Provision for
non-performing - - (27.81) (510.18) - - (537.99) - - (243.96) (243.96) (781.95)
investments (NPI)
Provision for - - (55.97) (399.90) - (52.27) (508.14) - - (0.82) (0.82) (508.96)
depreciation
Net 238,394.56 - 1,705.48 73,853.71 2,923.17 4,653.25 321,530.17 9,421.86 332.30 242.92 9,997.08 331,527.25
1. “Others” under Investments in India include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds, Venture
Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts, Pass Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP)
and “Others” under Investments outside India include investments in Equity Shares and Bonds.
b) Movement of Provisions for Depreciation and Investment Fluctuation Reserve
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
A Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investment
Opening Balance 508.95 959.71
Add: Provisions made during the year 30.62
Less: Transfer to General Reserve (508.95)
Less: Write off/ write back of excess provisions during the year (481.38)
Closing Balance - 508.95
B Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR)
Opening Balance 2,661.00 1,782.00
Add : Amount transferred during the year 248.00 879.00
Less : Drawdown - -
Closing Balance 2,909.00 2,661.00
C Closing Balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and 2.26% N.A.
FVTPL category (net of provision for non-performing investments)
Closing Balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and N.A. 2.28%
HFT category (net of provision for depreciation and provision for non-performing
investments)
c) Net gains/ (losses) on Level 3 financial instruments recognised in AFS-Reserve and Profit and Loss account
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025
Recognised in AFS-Reserve 19.41
Recognised in Profit and Loss Account 266.18
367
Financial statements
d) Sale and transfers to/from HTM category
i. During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the value of sales/transfers of securities to/from
HTM category (excluding one-time transfer of securities, additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted
by RBI and sales to RBI under Open Market Operations (OMO)/Government Securities Acquisition Programme
(GSAP)/Conversion/Switch auctions) did not exceed 5% of the book value of investments held in HTM category at
the beginning of the year.
Details of sales made out of HTM are set out below:
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
A Opening carrying value of securities in HTM 205,756.12 212,049.99
B Carrying value of all HTM securities sold during the year 18,119.90 11,044.48
C Less: Carrying values of securities sold under situations exempted from 12,474.97 2,454.28
regulatory limit
D Carrying value of securities sold (D=B-C) 5,644.93 8,590.20
E Securities sold as a percentage of opening carrying value of securities in HTM 2.74% 4.05%
(E=D÷A)
Amount transferred to Capital Reserve in respect of HTM securities which 214.35 139.55
were sold at a gain
e) Non-SLR investment portfolio
i) Movement in non-performing non SLR investments is set out below:
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening balance 782.08 1,585.14
Additions during the year1 31.69 25.92
Reductions during the year (284.85) (828.98)
Closing balance 528.92 782.08
Total provisions held (including provision in respect of Interest Capitalisation – 528.92 782.08
Restructured NPA accounts)
1. includes impact of exchange rate fluctuation
ii) Issuer composition Non-SLR investments*:
As at 31 March, 2025 (` in crores)
Extent of Extent of “below Extent of Extent of
Total
No. Issuer private investment “unrated” “unlisted”
Amount
placement grade” securities securities securities
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
i. Public Sector Units 3,019.90 2,321.09 84.73 - 172.73
ii. Financial Institutions 35,773.94 29,424.57 69.73 - 1.86
iii. Banks 16,917.14 14,268.46 - - 14.79
iv. Private Corporates 20,454.59 17,886.66 294.02 103.37 4,412.76
v. Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associate 6,495.71 5,921.75 - - 6,000.71
vi. Others 20,873.58 5,440.05 - - 5,315.65
vii. Mark-to-market gain/(loss) recognised over 495.61 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
book value of the investments
viii Provision held towards non performing (528.92) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
investments
Total 103,501.55 75,262.58 448.48 103.37 15,918.50
Amounts reported under columns (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.
368 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
As at 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Extent of Extent of “below Extent of Extent of
Total
No. Issuer private investment “unrated” “unlisted”
Amount
placement grade” securities securities securities
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
i. Public Sector Units 13,927.33 11,499.70 84.70 - 2,050.00
ii. Financial Institutions 16,550.58 15,038.16 77.00 - -
iii. Banks 11,665.29 10,121.96 - - -
iv. Private Corporates 34,897.54 29,322.00 620.53 144.60 4,823.48
v. Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures 3,255.47 3,255.47 - - 3,255.47
vi. Others 14,127.38 4,705.52 - - 4,593.39
vii. Provision held towards depreciation on (508.95) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
investments
viii Provision held towards non performing (781.95) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
investments
Total 93,132.69 73,942.79 782.23 144.60 14,722.33
Amounts reported under columns (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.
*excludes investments in non-SLR government securities amounting to `5,000.00 (previous year `5,000.00)
f) Repo Transactions
Details of securities sold/purchased under repos/reverse repos including LAF and MSF transactions (including Triparty
repos and repos under Targeted Long Term Repo Operations):
Year ended 31 March, 2025 (` in crores)
Minimum Maximum Daily Average
As at
outstanding outstanding outstanding
31 March, 2025
during the year during the year during the year
Securities sold under repos (In face value terms)
i. Government Securities - 42,425.12 10,096.98 -
ii. Corporate debt Securities - 1,040.00 173.83 640.00
iii. Any other securities - - - -
Securities sold under repos (In market value terms)
i. Government Securities - 42,583.71 10,131.41 -
ii. Corporate debt Securities - 1,040.62 172.41 631.69
iii. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In face value
terms)
i. Government Securities - 27,622.73 3,564.37 4,403.71
ii. Corporate debt Securities - 35.00 0.51 -
iii. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In market value
terms)
i. Government Securities - 27,066.15 3,516.25 4,460.50
ii. Corporate debt Securities - 34.62 0.50 -
iii. Any other securities - - - -
There have been no defaults in making the same set of securities available at the time of 2nd leg settlement of the Term
Reverse Repo during the year ended 31 March, 2025.
369
Financial statements
Year ended 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Minimum Maximum Daily Average
As at
outstanding outstanding outstanding
31 March, 2024
during the year during the year during the year
Securities sold under repos (In face value terms)
i. Government Securities - 34,189.72 12,581.10 -
ii. Corporate debt Securities - 310.00 4.39 -
iii. Any other securities - - - -
Securities sold under repos (In market value terms)
i. Government Securities - 33,922.17 12,479.19 -
ii. Corporate debt Securities - 307.39 4.34 -
iii. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In face value
terms)
i. Government Securities - 16,740.68 989.14 6,111.57
ii. Corporate debt Securities - - - -
iii. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In market value
terms)
i. Government Securities - 15,968.42 979.39 6,096.22
ii. Corporate debt Securities - - - -
iii. Any other securities - - - -
There have been no defaults in making the same set of securities available at the time of 2nd leg settlement of the Term
Reverse Repo during the year ended 31 March, 2024.
g) Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions (in market value terms)
Year ended 31 March, 2025 (` in crores)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Total volume
As at
outstanding outstanding outstanding of transactions
31 March, 2025
during the year during the year during the year during the year
Securities lent through GSL transactions - - - - -
Securities borrowed through GSL - - - - -
transactions
Securities placed as collateral under GSL - - - - -
transactions
Securities received as collateral under - - - - -
GSL Transactions
Year ended 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Total volume
As at
outstanding outstanding outstanding of transactions
31 March, 2024
during the year during the year during the year during the year
Securities lent through GSL transactions - - - - -
Securities borrowed through GSL - - - - -
transactions
Securities placed as collateral under GSL - - - - -
transactions
Securities received as collateral under - - - - -
GSL Transactions
370 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
h) Securities kept as margin (in face value terms)
(` in crores)
Sr.
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
No.
i. Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) Collateral and funds management - Member Common Collateral 5,700.00 4,000.00
b) Collateral and funds management - Tri-party Repo 53,150.00 47,350.00
c) Default fund - Forex Forward segment 219.00 97.00
d) Default fund - Forex Settlement segment 47.00 37.65
e) Default fund - Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment 44.40 30.55
f) Default fund - Securities segment 16.10 9.30
g) Default fund - Tri-party repo segment 5.50 6.60
ii. Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) 45,730.41 49,046.92
b) Repo constituent 65,003.10 50,494.12
iii. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 125.35 1,202.55
(NSCCIL) towards various segment
iv. Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation of India (ICCL) towards 5.50 5.50
capital market
Total 170,046.36 152,280.19
1.4 Asset Quality
a) i) Movement in gross non-performing assets is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Advances Investments Total
Gross NPAs as at the beginning of the year 14,345.04 782.08 15,127.12
Intra Category Transfer (34.31) 34.31 -
Additions (fresh NPAs) during the year1 19,476.28 (2.62) 19,473.66
Sub-total (A) 33,787.01 813.77 34,600.78
Less:-
(i) Upgradations (4,617.70) (8.88) (4,626.58)
(ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries made from upgraded (3,401.73) (250.09) (3,651.82)
accounts)2
(iii) Technical/Prudential Write-offs3 (6,798.43) (25.88) (6,824.31)
(iv) Write-offs other than those under (iii) above (5,007.96) - (5,007.96)
Sub-total (B) (19,825.82) (284.85) (20,110.67)
Gross NPAs as at the end of the year (A-B) 13,961.19 528.92 14,490.11
1. includes impact of exchange rate fluctuation
2. includes recoveries from sale of NPAs
3. represents cases where the non-performing assets remain outstanding at borrowers’ loan account level but are written-off (fully
or partially) by the Bank only for accounting purposes, without involving any waiver of claims against the borrower, and without
prejudice to the recovery of the same
371
Financial statements
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Advances Investments Total
Gross NPAs as at the beginning of the year 17,019.09 1,585.14 18,604.23
Intra Category Transfer - - -
Additions (fresh NPAs) during the year 14,404.64 25.92 14,430.56
Sub-total (A) 31,423.73 1,611.06 33,034.79
Less:-
(i) Upgradations (6,022.19) (108.78) (6,130.97)
(ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries made from upgraded (2,710.47) (201.32) (2,911.79)
accounts)1
(iii) Technical/Prudential Write-offs2 (5,548.66) (420.24) (5,968.90)
(iv) Write-offs other than those under (iii) above (2,797.37) (98.64) (2,896.01)
Sub-total (B) (17,078.69) (828.98) (17,907.67)
Gross NPAs as at the end of the year (A-B) 14,345.04 782.08 15,127.12
1. includes recoveries from sale of NPAs
2. represents cases where the non-performing assets remain outstanding at borrowers’ loan account level but are written-off (fully
or partially) by the Bank only for accounting purposes, without involving any waiver of claims against the borrower, and without
prejudice to the recovery of the same
ii) Movement in provisions for non-performing assets is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Advances Investments Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 11,094.32 782.08 11,876.40
Intra-Category Transfer (27.33) 27.33 -
Provisions made during the year 12,140.26 (1.73) 12,138.53
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation 15.43 (4.64) 10.79
Transfer from restructuring provision - - -
Provision in respect of Interest Capitalisation – Restructured (21.56) (0.13) (21.69)
NPA Accounts
Write-offs/(write back) of excess provision (12,928.63) (273.99) (13,202.62)
Closing balance at the end of the year 10,272.49 528.92 10,801.41
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Advances Investments Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 13,579.98 1,465.33 15,045.31
Intra-Category Transfer - - -
Provisions made during the year 6,320.51 50.54 6,371.05
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation 21.62 (10.46) 11.16
Transfer from restructuring provision - - -
Provision in respect of Interest Capitalisation – Restructured (118.51) (14.27) (132.78)
NPA Accounts
Write-offs/(write back) of excess provision (8,709.28) (709.06) (9,418.34)
Closing balance at the end of the year 11,094.32 782.08 11,876.40
372 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
iii) Movement in net non-performing assets is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Advances Investments Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 3,247.47 - 3,247.47
Intra-Category Transfer (6.98) 6.98 -
Additions during the year 7,336.02 (0.89) 7,335.13
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation (15.43) 4.64 (10.79)
Reductions during the year (6,897.19) (10.86) (6,908.05)
Floating provisions - - -
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured NPA Accounts 21.56 0.13 21.69
Closing balance at the end of the year 3,685.45 - 3,685.45
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Advances Investments Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 3,439.11 119.81 3,558.92
Intra-Category Transfer - - -
Additions during the year 8,084.13 (24.62) 8,059.51
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation (21.62) 10.46 (11.16)
Reductions during the year (8,369.41) (119.92) (8,489.33)
Floating Provision (3.25) - (3.25)
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured NPA Accounts 118.51 14.27 132.78
Closing balance at the end of the year 3,247.47 - 3,247.47
iv) Classification of advances and provisions held
For the year 31 March, 2025 (` in crores)
Standard Non-Performing
Total Total Non-
Sub- Total
Standard Doubtful Loss Performing
standard
Advances Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance 961,820.91 5,212.30 3,888.71 5,244.03 14,345.04 976,165.95
Inter-Category transfer from/(to) (34.31)
Investments
Add: Additions during the year 19,476.28
Less: Reductions during the year* (19,825.82)
Closing Balance 10,37,125.87 7,685.65 3,388.53 2,887.01 13,961.19 10,51,087.06
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) Upgradation (4,617.70)
ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries from (3,401.73)
upgraded accounts)1
iii) Technical/Prudential Write-offs (6,798.43)
iv) Write-offs other than (iii) above2 (5,007.96)
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions) 3
Opening Balance of Provisions held 4,900.10 2,891.08 2,959.21 5,244.03 11,094.32 15,994.42
Inter category transfer from/(to) Investments (27.33)
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year 12,140.26
Add: Provision in respect of Interest (21.56)
Capitalisation – Restructured NPA Accounts
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation 15.43
Transfer from restructuring provision -
Less: Excess Provision reversed/ Write-off (12,928.63)
loans
Closing Balance of Provisions held 4,950.06 4,752.34 2,633.14 2,887.01 10,272.49 15,222.55
373
Financial statements
For the year 31 March, 2025 (` in crores)
Standard Non-Performing
Total Total Non-
Sub- Total
Standard Doubtful Loss Performing
standard
Advances Advances
Net NPAs
Opening Balance (excluding floating 2,321.22 929.50 - 3,250.72
provision)
Less: Floating provision (3.25)
Inter category transfer from/(to) Investments (6.98)
Add: Fresh Additions during the year 7,336.02
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured NPA 21.56
Accounts
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation (15.43)
Less: Reductions during the year (6,897.19)
Closing Balance 2,933.31 755.39 - 3,685.45
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance 3.25
Add: Additional provisions made during the -
year
Less: Amount of drawn down during the -
year
Closing Balance of Floating provisions 3.25
Technical write-offs and recoveries made
thereon (includes advances, investments
and others)
Opening balance of Technical/Prudential 39,683.15
written-off accounts
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs during 6,824.31
the year
Add: Effect of exchange rate fluctuation 161.10
Less: Recoveries made from previously (2,338.50)
technical/ prudential written-off accounts
during the year
Less: Accounts upgraded pursuant to -
implementation of resolution plan (change
in ownership)
Less: Sacrifice made from previously (1,512.42)
technical/ prudential written-off accounts
during the year
Closing Balance 42,817.64
1. i ncludes `678.23 crores recovered in the form of Government guaranteed Security Receipts allotted by National Asset
Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL).
2. including sale of NPAs
3. including provision in respect of Interest Capitalization - Restructured Accounts, in respect of NPA accounts amounting to `7.47
crores which is not recognized as income as per RBI guidelines
For the year 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Standard Non-Performing Total
Total Total Non-
Sub-
Standard Doubtful Loss Performing
standard
Advances Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance 841,866.98 3,888.81 7,223.19 5,907.09 17,019.09 858,886.07
Inter-Category transfer from/(to) -
Investments
Add: Additions during the year 14,404.64
Less: Reductions during the year* (17,078.69)
Closing Balance 961,820.91 5,212.30 3,888.71 5,244.03 14,345.04 976,165.95
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) Upgradation (6,022.19)
374 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
For the year 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Standard Non-Performing Total
Total Total Non-
Sub-
Standard Doubtful Loss Performing
standard
Advances Advances
ii) Recoveries (excluding (2,710.47)
recoveries from upgraded
accounts)
iii) Technical/Prudential Write- (5,548.66)
offs
iv) Write-offs other than (iii) (2,797.37)
above1
Provisions (excluding Floating
Provisions) 2
Opening Balance of Provisions held 7,815.83 2,000.81 5,672.08 5,907.09 13,579.98 21,395.81
Inter category transfer from/(to) -
Investments & Others
Add: Fresh provisions made during the 6,320.51
year
Add: Provision in respect of Interest (118.51)
Capitalisation – Restructured NPA
Accounts
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation 21.62
Transfer from restructuring provision -
Less: Excess Provision reversed/ Write- (8,709.28)
off loans
Closing Balance of Provisions held3 4,900.10 2,891.08 2,959.21 5,244.03 11,094.32 15,994.42
Net NPAs
Opening Balance 1,888.00 1,551.11 - 3,439.11
Less: Floating provision (3.25)
Add: Fresh Additions during the year 8,084.13
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured 118.51
NPA Accounts
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation (21.62)
Less: Reductions during the year (8,369.41)
Closing Balance 2,321.22 929.50 - 3,247.47
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance 3.25
Add: Additional provisions made during -
the year
Less: Amount of drawn down during the -
year
Closing Balance of Floating provisions 3.25
Technical write-offs and recoveries
made thereon (includes advances,
investments and others)
Opening balance of Technical/ 38,015.30
Prudential written-off accounts
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs 5,968.90
during the year
Add: Effect of exchange rate fluctuation 96.02
Less: Recoveries made from previously (2,234.76)
technical/ prudential written-off
accounts during the year4
375
Financial statements
For the year 31 March, 2024 (` in crores)
Standard Non-Performing Total
Total Total Non-
Sub-
Standard Doubtful Loss Performing
standard
Advances Advances
Less: Accounts upgraded pursuant (29.82)
to implementation of resolution plan
(change in ownership)
Less: Sacrifice made from previously (2,132.49)
technical/ prudential written-off
accounts during the year
Closing Balance 39,683.15
1. including sale of NPAs
2. including provision in respect of Interest Capitalization - Restructured Accounts, in respect of NPA accounts amounting to `29.03
crores which is not recognized as income as per RBI guidelines
3. During the year, the Bank has reclassified provision of `3,130.18 crores on loans under moratorium as per RBI guidelines on
COVID-19 regulatory package from provision for standard advances to provision for other contingencies. [Refer note 2.10(c)]
4. including recoveries amounting to `122.42 crores in the form of Security Receipts allotted during the year.
v) Key NPA Ratios
(in percent)
Sr.
Ratios 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
No.
i. Gross non-performing advances to Gross Advances 1.33% 1.47%
ii. Net non-performing advances to Net Advances 0.35% 0.34%
iii. Provision Coverage ratio for non-performing assets (including prudential write 93.56% 94.07%
offs)
iv. Gross non-performing assets as a percentage of gross customer assets1 1.28% 1.43%
v. Net non-performing assets as a percentage of net customer assets1 0.33% 0.31%
1. Customer assets include advances and credit substitutes
b) Sector-wise advances
(` in crores)
Sr. Sector 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
No. %
% of Gross Outstanding of Gross
Outstanding
NPAs to Total Total NPAs to
Total Gross NPAs Gross NPAs
Advances in Advances Total
Advances
that sector Advances
in that sector
A Priority Sector
1 Agriculture and allied 106,466.79 3,202.46 3.01% 104,540.94 2,107.09 2.02%
activities
2 Advances to industries 80,987.30 1,199.64 1.48% 81,590.66 977.10 1.20%
sector eligible as priority
sector lending
-Chemical & Chemical products 8,243.76 54.70 0.66% 9,345.37 52.30 0.56%
-Basic Metal & Metal Products 9,983.85 168.39 1.69% 9,035.68 134.07 1.48%
-Infrastructure 4,578.05 43.00 0.94% 5,917.81 35.97 0.61%
3 Services 72,647.23 739.53 1.02% 64,883.44 713.20 1.10%
-Banking and Finance other 702.57 - - 1,255.74 - -
than NBFCs and MFs
-Non-banking financial 2,566.05 - - 86.66 18.08 20.87%
companies (NBFCs)
-Commercial Real Estate 13,343.06 6.55 0.05% 11,779.11 5.74 0.05%
376 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(` in crores)
Sr. Sector 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
No. %
% of Gross Outstanding of Gross
Outstanding
NPAs to Total Total NPAs to
Total Gross NPAs Gross NPAs
Advances in Advances Total
Advances
that sector Advances
in that sector
-Trade 30,092.16 365.64 1.22% 27,314.45 446.22 1.63%
4 Personal loans 128,922.81 2,091.27 1.62% 120,871.21 1,343.83 1.11%
-Housing* 70,255.25 533.03 0.76% 67,473.59 532.61 0.79%
-Vehicle Loans 29,816.43 862.75 2.89% 27,853.49 556.97 2.00%
Sub-total (A) 389,024.13 7,232.90 1.86% 371,886.25 5,141.22 1.38%
B Non Priority Sector
1 Agriculture and allied 1,218.14 25.65 2.11% 3,243.90 0.13 0.00%#
activities
2 Industry 157,758.27 1,938.95 1.23% 151,929.11 4,253.11 2.80%
-Chemical & Chemical 18,900.84 21.07 0.11% 17,721.74 31.95 0.18%
products
-Basic Metal & Metal Products 19,386.11 35.79 0.18% 16,652.69 148.46 0.89%
-Infrastructure 49,327.99 526.30 1.07% 55,954.12 1,721.93 3.08%
3 Services 148,632.26 853.17 0.57% 126,030.23 2,161.10 1.71%
-Banking and Finance other 28,244.41 - - 25,880.77 0.83 0.00%#
than NBFCs and MFs
-Non-banking financial 39,094.69 30.86 0.08% 28,779.50 57.94 0.20%
companies (NBFCs)
-Commercial Real Estate 23,739.19 170.82 0.72% 23,213.92 418.99 1.80%
-Trade 30,444.48 189.21 0.62% 24,888.47 631.75 2.54%
4 Personal loans 354,454.26 3,910.52 1.10% 323,076.46 2,789.48 0.86%
-Housing* 166,409.09 823.07 0.49% 159,144.53 746.30 0.47%
-Vehicle Loans 31,212.93 997.37 3.20% 29,421.67 598.50 2.03%
Sub-total (B) 662,062.93 6,728.29 1.02% 604,279.70 9,203.82 1.52%
Total (A+B) 1,051,087.06 13,961.19 1.33% 976,165.95 14,345.04 1.47%
* includes loans against property
# less than 0.005%
Classification of advances into respective sectors is based on Sector wise Industry Bank Credit return as submitted to RBI.
Figures in italics represent sub-sectors where the outstanding advance exceeds 10% of total outstanding advance to that sector.
c) Amount of total assets, non-performing assets and revenue of overseas branches is given below
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Total assets1 56,531.95 51,542.99
Total NPAs (Gross) 654.98 1,521.03
Total NPAs (Net) - -
Total revenue1 3,321.20 3,068.79
1. Represents total assets and total revenue of foreign operations (refer note no. 2.4 of Schedule 18 on information about business and
geographical segments)
d) Particulars of resolution plan and restructuring
i) Disclosure with regard to implementation of resolution plan as required under RBI circular dated 7 June, 2019 for
Resolution of Stressed Assets:
377
Financial statements
As on/for the year ended 31 March, 2025
( ` in crores)
Resolution plan not
Resolution plan
implemented within
Particulars implemented during
specified timelines as on
the year
31 March, 2025
No. of borrowers1 3 16
Fund and non-fund based outstanding as on 31 March, 20252 58.57 950.81
Additional provisions held as per RBI guidelines - 90.40
1. includes prudentially written-off accounts and accounts settled pursuant to implementation of resolution plan
2. excluding fund based outstanding for prudentially written off cases and outstanding in equity shares
As on/for the year ended 31 March, 2024
( ` in crores)
Resolution plan not
Resolution plan
implemented within
Particulars implemented during
specified timelines as on
the year
31 March, 2024
No. of borrowers1 2 25
Fund and non-fund based outstanding as on 31 March, 20242 102.37 2,513.58
Additional provisions held as per RBI guidelines - 120.73
1. includes prudentially written-off accounts and accounts settled pursuant to implementation of resolution plan
2. excluding fund based outstanding for prudentially written off cases and outstanding in equity shares
378 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
ii) Details of accounts subjected to restructuring1,2,3,4
( Numbers/` in crores)
Micro, Small and
Agriculture and allied Corporate (excluding Retail (excluding
Medium Enterprises Total
activities MSME) agriculture and MSME)
(MSME)5
As on 31 As on 31 As on 31 As on 31 As on 31 As on 31 As on 31 As on 31 As on 31 As on 31
March, March, March, March, March, March, March, March, March, March,
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
Standard Number of 23 52 2 1 789 1,004 1,180 1,624 1,994 2,681
borrowers*
Gross amount 4.44 4.33 68.21 30.75 150.06 258.51 86.71 127.49 309.42 421.08
Provision held 0.22 0.22 3.41 1.54 43.98 74.94 4.34 6.37 51.95 83.07
Sub- Number of 33 4 - - 28 174 242 59 303 237
standard borrowers*
Gross amount 4.29 0.78 - - 7.73 31.45 24.64 5.12 36.66 37.35
Provision held 1.29 0.23 - - 1.78 16.30 14.38 4.54 17.45 21.07
Doubtful Number of 30 9 7 3 9,303 9,809 18 282 9,358 10,103
borrowers*
Gross amount 10.40 0.58 43.99 75.07 47.65 71.41 12.77 14.90 114.81 161.96
Provision held 8.84 0.43 27.92 68.16 40.75 50.76 11.69 13.06 89.20 132.40
Loss Number of 2 3 4 4 - 13 8 9 14 29
borrowers*
Gross amount 0.23 0.11 124.25 123.49 - 6.54 0.61 2.29 125.09 132.43
Provision held6 0.23 0.11 122.92 119.45 - 6.40 0.61 2.29 123.76 128.25
Total Number of 88 68 13 8 10,120 11,000 1,448 1,974 11,669 13,050
borrowers*
Gross amount 19.36 5.80 236.45 229.31 205.44 367.91 124.73 149.80 585.98 752.82
Provision held6 10.58 0.99 154.25 189.14 86.51 148.41 31.02 26.26 282.36 364.80
* while reporting number of borrowers, restructured accounts of same borrowers under different category are reported only
under one category
1. Excludes prudentially written-off accounts
2. Excludes accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19 related stress as per RBI
circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution Framework 2.0). [Refer note 18 (1.4) (h)]
3. Includes accounts where restructuring is implemented under RBI circular for Resolution of Stressed Assets (excluding cases of
change in ownership)
4. I ncludes compromise settlement accounts treated as restructuring pursuant to RBI guidelines on “Framework for Compromise
Settlements and Technical Write offs” where the time for payment of agreed settlement amount exceeds three months
5. Includes Zero MSME borrower accounts restructured under RBI guidelines of January, 2019 amounting to Nil (Previous year Zero
accounts amounting ` Nil)
6. Excluding balance outstanding in Sundries Account (Interest Capitalization - Restructured Accounts), in respect of NPA accounts
which is not recognized as income as per RBI guidelines
e) Divergence in asset classification and provisioning
In terms of RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements. The disclosure
is required if either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for NPAs assessed
by RBI exceeds 5% of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period and (b) the
additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5% or 10% of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference
period ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023 respectively.
Based on the above, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is required with
respect to RBI’s annual supervisory process for the year ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023.
379
Financial statements
f) Disclosure on transfer of loan exposures
i) Details of loans not in default acquired and transferred during the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March,
2024 under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposure dated 24 September, 2021 are given below :
a) Details of loans not in default acquired from other entities:
(` in crores)
Particulars For the year ended 31 March, 2025 For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Corporate Retail Corporate Retail
Mode of acquisition Assignment Assignment Assignment and Assignment
Novation
Aggregate Principal outstanding of 706.30 127.05 1,192.18 800.56
loans acquired
Weighted average residual maturity 7.73 years 6.29 years 9.35 years 13.60 years
Weighted average holding period N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Retention of beneficial economic N.A. 10% N.A. 10%
interest by the originator
Coverage of tangible security (for 83% secured Weighted average 100% secured Weighted average
secured loans) LTV ~35% LTV ~47%
Rating-wise1 distribution of loans
acquired by value
- A- and above 97% N.A. 62% N.A.
- BBB and BBB+ 3% N.A. 29% N.A.
- SME -3 - N.A. 9% N.A.
1. Represents internal rating
b) Details of loans not in default transferred to other entities:
(` in crores)
Particulars For the year ended 31 March, 2025 For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Corporate Retail Corporate Retail
Mode of transfer Assignment and - Assignment and -
Novation Novation
Aggregate Principal outstanding of 16,072.15 - 12,308.62 -
loans acquired
Weighted average residual maturity N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Weighted average holding period 0.58 years - 0.87 years -
(for assignment transactions)
Retention of beneficial economic Nil - Nil -
interest
Coverage of tangible security (for 100% secured - 94% secured -
secured loans)
Rating-wise1 distribution of loans
transferred by value
- A- and above 78% N.A. 96% N.A.
- BBB+ 22% N.A. 4% N.A.
1. Represents internal rating
There are no agreements to replace loans transferred to transferees or pay damages arising from any representations
or warranty for any of the loans transferred during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024.
ii) Details of stressed loans acquired and transferred during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024
under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposure dated 24 September, 2021 are given below:
a) The Bank has not acquired any stressed loans (NPA and SMA accounts) during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and
31 March, 2024.
380 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
b) Details of stressed loans transferred (excluding prudentially written off accounts):
During the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
To permitted
To ARCs To other transferees
transferees
NPA SMA NPA SMA NPA SMA
No. of accounts 5 - 1 - - -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (on 1,284.76 - 225.00 - - -
the date of transfer)
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred N.A. - N.A. - - -
Net book value of the loans transferred (at the time of - - - - - -
transfer)
Aggregate consideration* 1,479.76 - 0.00** - - -
Excess provision reversed to the profit and loss account 1,127.49 - - - - -
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts - - - - - -
transferred in earlier years
* represents sum of cash plus redemption value of security receipts received
** amount less than `50,000/-
During the year ended 31 March, 2024
(` in crores)
To permitted
To ARCs To other transferees
transferees
NPA SMA NPA SMA NPA SMA
No. of accounts 3 - - - 1 -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (on the 423.72 - - - 11.56 -
date of transfer)
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred N.A. - - - N.A. -
Net book value of the loans transferred (at the time of - - - - 8.64 -
transfer)
Aggregate consideration 235.00 - - - 9.40 -
Excess provision reversed to the profit and loss account 235.00 - - - 0.76 -
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts - - - - - -
transferred in earlier years
iii) During year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank has been alloted Security Receipts amounting to `1,215.47 crores
pursuant to transfer of certain stressed loans to asset reconstruction companies.
Details on recovery ratings assigned to Security Receipts as on 31 March, 2025:
(` in crores)
Recovery ratings Anticipated recovery as per recovery rating % Net Book value Redemption value
RR+ 187% - 2.52
RR1 121% 17.09 17.09
RR1 127% 45.02 45.02
RR2 90% 3.56 3.56
RR2 77% 16.62 16.62
RR1 150% 40.13 40.13
Yet to be rated1 513.73 1,050.97
Yet to be rated1 164.50 164.50
Total 800.65 1,340.41
1. Recent purchase whose statutory period has not elapsed
381
Financial statements
During year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank has been allotted Security Receipts amounting to `128.45 crores
pursuant to transfer of certain stressed loans to asset reconstruction companies. Details on recovery ratings
assigned to Security Receipts as on 31 March, 2024:
(` in crores)
Recovery ratings Anticipated recovery as per recovery rating Net Book value Redemption value
Yet to be rated1 - 128.45
Total - 128.45
1. Recent purchase whose statutory period has not elapsed
g) Disclosure on provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts
(` in crores)
For the year ended For the year ended
Particulars
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Number of frauds reported during the year 1,2,3 19,625 33,005
Amounts involved net of recoveries/write-offs during the year 1,2,3 490.49 260.50
Provisions held at the beginning of the year 51.59 23.30
Provisions made during the year 307.41 74.05
Balance held in interest capitalisation accounts - -
Provisions held at the end of the year 359.01 97.35
Unamortised provision debited from ‘other reserves’ as at the end of the year - -
1. Includes 17,281 cases of frauds amounting to `124.35 crores (previous year 32,068 cases of `158.96 crores), relating to digital payment
related transactions
2. In respect of frauds related to advances, the Bank undertakes 100% provisioning of the outstanding amount once the borrower account
is classified as fraud in line with RBI guidelines. In respect of other frauds, provision is made where the claim has been admitted and
the Bank is under an obligation to settle the same. In all other cases declared as fraud but where claim is not admitted, no provision is
required to be made. The number of frauds reported during the year include 96 cases (excluding cases covered under note 1 above)
amounting to `7.13 crores where claim has not been admitted by the Bank (previous year 584 cases amounting to ` 4.19 crores)
3. Excluding 316 cases of advances (previous year 15 cases) amounting to `409.48 crores (previous year `22.76 crores) reported as fraud
during the FY 2024-25 and which are prudentially written off as on 31 March, 2025.
h) Disclosure under Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress
For the year ended on 31 March, 2025
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19
related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0) during the half year ended 30 September, 2024:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Exposure to accounts Exposure to accounts
classified as Standard Of (A) amount Of (A) classified as Standard
Of (A), aggregate
consequent to written off amount paid by consequent to
debt that slipped
Type of borrower implementation of during the borrowers implementation of
into NPA during H1
resolution plan – H1 FY25 during resolution plan –
FY25
Position as at H1 FY252 Position as at
31 March, 2024 (A)1 30 September, 20241
Personal Loans3 1,330.90 47.61 2.04 120.32 1,160.93
Corporate persons 197.15 - - 37.76 159.39
Of which, MSMEs - - - - -
Others - - - - -
Total 1,528.05 47.61 2.04 158.08 1,320.32
1. Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
2. Represents net movement in balance outstanding
3. Personal loans represent retail advances
382 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19
related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0) during the half year ended 31 March, 2025:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Exposure to accounts Of (A), Exposure to accounts
Of (A) amount
classified as Standard aggregate Of (A) amount classified as Standard
paid by the
consequent to debt that written off consequent to
Type of borrower borrowers
implementation of resolution slipped into during H2 implementation of resolution
during
plan – Position as at NPA during FY25 plan – Position as at
H2 FY252
30 September, 2024 (A)1 H2 FY25 31 March, 20251
Personal Loans3 1,160.93 23.73 2.94 112.96 1,021.30
Corporate persons 159.39 - - (27.99) 187.38
Of which, MSMEs - - - - -
Others - - - - -
Total 1,320.32 23.73 2.94 84.97 1,208.68
1. Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
2. Represents net movement in balance outstanding
3. Personal loans represent retail advances
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for
COVID-19 related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) during the half year ended
30 September, 2023:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Exposure to accounts
Exposure to accounts Of (A), Of (A)
classified as Standard
classified as Standard aggregate Of (A) amount amount
consequent to
consequent to debt that written off paid by the
Type of borrower implementation of
implementation of resolution slipped into during borrowers
resolution plan – Position
plan – Position as at 31 March, NPA during H1 FY24 during
as at
2023 (A)1 H1 FY24 H1 FY242
30 September, 20231
Personal Loans3 1,834.67 84.69 29.24 184.53 1,536.21
Corporate persons 211.94 - - (7.50) 219.44
Of which, MSMEs - - - - -
Others - - - - -
Total 2,046.61 84.69 29.24 177.03 1,755.65
1. Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
2. Represents net movement in balance outstanding
3. Personal loans represent retail advances
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19
383
Financial statements
related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0) during the half year ended 31 March, 2024:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Exposure to
Exposure to accounts accounts classified
Of (A) amount
classified as Standard Of (A), aggregate as Standard
Of (A) amount paid by the
consequent to implementation debt that slipped consequent to
Type of borrower written off borrowers
of resolution plan – Position into NPA during implementation of
during H2 FY24 during
as at H2 FY24 resolution plan –
H2 FY242
30 September, 2023 (A)1 Position as at
31 March, 20241
Personal Loans3 1,536.21 53.97 3.54 147.80 1,330.90
Corporate persons 219.44 7.54 - 14.75 197.15
Of which, MSMEs - - - - -
Others - - - - -
Total 1,755.65 61.51 3.54 162.55 1,528.05
1. Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
2. Represents net movement in balance outstanding
3. Personal loans represent retail advances
i) During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024 none of the loans and advances held at overseas branches
of the Bank have been classified as NPA by any host banking regulator for reasons other than record of recovery.
1.5 Exposures
a) Exposure to Real Estate sector
(` in crores)
Category 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
1) Direct Exposure
(i) Residential mortgages
(Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be 217,344.83 212,548.30
occupied by the borrower or that is rented. Exposure also includes non-fund
based (NFB) limits)
- of which housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector advances 56,083.46 58,915.62
(ii) Commercial real estate 71,495.88 66,800.56
[Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estate (office building, retail
space, multipurpose commercial premises, multifamily residential buildings,
multi tenanted commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels,
land acquisition, development, and construction etc.) where the prospects for
repayment and recovery depend primarily on the cashflows generated by the
assets and also includes housing loans extended towards third dwelling unit.
Exposures include NFB limits.]
(iii) Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised
exposures -
a. Residential - -
b. Commercial real estate - -
2) Indirect Exposure
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and 17,482.70 25,373.33
Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector 306,323.41 304,722.19
384 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
b) Exposure to Capital Market
(` in crores)
Category 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
1. Direct investments in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures and 4,576.42 4,043.27
units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively invested
in corporate debt1
2. Advances against shares/bonds/debentures or other securities or on clean basis 11.61 11.71
to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs/ESOPs), convertible bonds,
convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented mutual funds
3. Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible 2,675.40 2,268.93
debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security
4. Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral security of 100.30 3,435.34
shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented
mutual funds i.e. where primary security other than shares/convertible bonds/
convertible debentures/units of equity-oriented mutual funds does not fully cover
the advances
5. Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on behalf of 34,114.15 17,276.97
stockbrokers and market makers
6. Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares/bonds/debentures or 16.90 178.37
other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity of
new companies in anticipation of raising resources
7. Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows/issues 51.04 8.72
8. Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or - -
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual funds
9. Financing to stock brokers for margin trading - -
10. All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and unregistered) including 413.04 517.99
capital contribution to LLP
Total exposure to Capital Market (Total of 1 to 10) 41,958.86 27,741.30
1. excludes investment in equity shares on account of conversion of debt into equity as part of restructuring amounting to `210.76 crores
as on 31 March, 2025 (previous year `196.33 crores) which are exempted from exposure to Capital Market
c) Details of Risk Category wise Country Exposure
(` in crores)
Exposure (Net) as at Provision Held as at Exposure (Net) as at Provision Held as at
Risk Category1
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024 31 March, 2024
Insignificant - - - -
Low 26,770.15 44.14 26,657.10 33.57
Moderate 692.33 - 1,849.10 -
High 32.75 - 1,040.76 -
Very High 45.46 - 514.37 -
Restricted 0.15 - - -
Off-Credit 0.01 - - -
Total 27,540.85 44.14 30,061.33 33.57
1. Risk categorization is based on the methodology as internally adopted by the Bank
d) Unsecured Advances
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Total unsecured advances of the Bank 282,660.38 290,227.80
Out of the above, amount of advances for which intangible securities such as charge over the - -
rights, licenses, authority, etc. have been taken
Estimated value of such intangible securities - -
385
Financial statements
e) Factoring Exposures
As on 31 March, 2025, exposures under factoring stood at `16,497.03 crores (previous year `13,166.02 crores).
f) Disclosure on Intra-Group Exposures1
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Total amount of intra-group exposures 18,360.20 18,121.66
Total amount of top-20 intra-group exposures 18,360.09 18,121.61
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the Bank on borrowers/customers 1.01 1.10
1. E xposure includes credit exposure (funded and non-funded), derivative exposure, investment exposure (including underwriting and
similar commitments) and deposits placed for meeting shortfall in Priority Sector Lending
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the intra-group exposures were within the limits specified by RBI.
The above information is as certified by the Management and relied upon by the auditors.
g) Unhedged foreign currency exposures
The Bank has laid down the framework to manage credit risk arising out of unhedged foreign currency exposures of the
borrowers. Both at the time of initial approval as well as subsequent reviews/renewals, the assessment of credit risk
arising out of foreign currency exposure of the borrowers include details of imports, exports, repayments of foreign
currency borrowings, as well as hedges done by the borrowers or naturally enjoyed by them vis-a-vis their intrinsic
financial strength, history of hedging and losses arising out of foreign currency volatility. The extent of hedge/cover
required on the total foreign currency exposure including natural hedge and hedged positions, is guided through a matrix
of internal ratings. The hedging policy is applicable for existing as well as new clients with foreign currency exposures
above a predefined threshold. The details of unhedged foreign currency exposure of customers for transactions
undertaken through the Bank are monitored periodically. The Bank also maintains additional provision and capital, in
line with RBI guidelines.
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening provision held as at 1st April 411.31 309.64
Provision transferred on acquisition of Citibank India consumer business - 10.10
Provision released during the year (54.74) 91.57
Cumulative provision held as at 31st March 356.57 411.31
Incremental capital held as at 31st March 1,562.07 1,449.22
1.6 Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
a) Concentration of deposits
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors 113,671.66 90,901.54
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits 9.69 8.51
b) Concentration of advances1
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers 150,927.19 126,509.96
Percentage of advances to twenty largest borrowers to total advances 8.63 7.97
1. Advances represent credit exposure (funded and non-funded) including derivative exposure as defined by RBI
386 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
c) Concentration of exposures1
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers/customers 166,227.48 134,583.49
Percentage of exposures to twenty largest borrowers/customers to total exposure on
borrowers/customers 9.17 8.16
1. Exposure includes credit exposure (funded and non-funded), derivative exposure, investment exposure (including underwriting and
similar commitments) and deposits placed for meeting shortfall in Priority Sector Lending
d) Concentration of NPAs
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Total exposure to the top twenty NPA accounts1 2,817.52 5,430.04
Percentage exposures of the twenty largest NPA exposures to total gross NPAs2 17.48 31.07
1. Represents fund based and non-fund based outstanding and non-performing investments
2. Percentage is computed based on outstanding of top twenty NPA accounts (excluding non-fund based outstanding) to gross NPAs
1.7 Derivatives
a) Disclosure in respect of Interest Rate Swaps (‘IRS’), Forward Rate Agreement (‘FRA’) and Cross Currency Swaps (‘CCS’)
outstanding is set out below:
An ‘IRS’ is a financial contract between two parties exchanging or swapping a stream of interest payments for a
‘notional principal’ amount on multiple occasions during a specified period. The Bank deals in interest rate benchmarks
like Mumbai Inter-Bank Offered Rate (MIBOR), Indian Government Securities Benchmark Rate (INBMK), Modified
MIFOR and Alternative Reference Rates (ARR) of various currencies. Pursuant to RBI guidelines on Roadmap for LIBOR
transition all new deals are being offered on Modified MIFOR and ARR interest rates benchmarks as published by the
regulators of respective currencies.
A ‘FRA’ is a financial contract between two parties to exchange interest payments for ‘notional principal’ amount on
settlement date, for a specified period from start date to maturity date. Accordingly, on the settlement date cash
payments based on contract rate and the settlement rate, which is the agreed bench-mark/reference rate prevailing on
the settlement date, are made by the parties to one another. The benchmark used in the FRA contracts of the Bank is
Bond/ARR of various currencies.
A ‘CCS’ is a financial contract between two parties exchanging interest payments and principal, wherein interest
payments and principal in one currency would be exchanged for an equally valued interest payments and principal in
another currency.
(` in crores)
Sr. As at As at
Items
No. 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
i) Notional principal of swap agreements 1,236,207.65 778,852.15
ii) Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfill their obligations 8,390.76 9,187.39
under the agreements
iii) Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps 3,093.63 2,439.19
iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps
Maximum single industry exposure with Banks (previous year with Banks) 7,911.76 8,977.79
v) Fair value of the swap book (hedging & trading) 382.48 165.69
387
Financial statements
The nature and terms of the IRS as on 31 March, 2025 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature Nos. Notional Principal Benchmark Terms
Hedging 1 743.63 SOFR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 5 767.85 ESTR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 7 581.47 EURIBOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 11,661 409,717.24 MIBOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 5 92.41 MIOIS Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 740 58,890.24 Modified MIFOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 24 10,092.82 TBILL Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 429.48 TONAR(JPY) Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1,016 85,592.41 SOFR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 5 669.95 ESTR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 7 1,538.42 EURIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 3 550.00 INBMK Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 12,378 414,899.02 MIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 6 344.51 MIOIS Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 599 47,167.76 Modified MIFOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 24 9,707.97 TBILL Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 7 1,100.04 TONAR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1,165 99,395.94 SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 28 15,204.99 SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 644.63 ESTR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
27,863 1,158,130.78
The nature and terms of the IRS as on 31 March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature Nos. Notional Principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 7 513.62 EURIBOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 7,338 228,274.50 MIBOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 2 62.36 MIOIS Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 746 58,192.64 MOD MIFOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 328 50,562.53 SOFR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 3.25 SONIA Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 4 621.95 ESTR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 77.10 TONAR (JPY) Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 8 3,738.06 TBILL Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 8 1,840.64 EURIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 4 650.00 INBMK Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 7,338 241,972.21 MIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 507 38,579.07 MOD MIFOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 456 65,991.05 SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1 105.03 SONIA Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 5 158.07 TONAR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 3 317.72 ESTR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 7 421.50 MIOIS Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 40 20,582.72 SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 629.14 ESTR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
16,805 713,293.15
388 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
The nature and terms of the FRA as on 31 March, 2025 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature Nos. Notional Principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 251 6,401.93 BOND Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
251 6,401.93
The nature and terms of the FRA as on 31 March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature Nos. Notional Principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 181 5,068.17 BOND Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
181 5,068.17
The nature and terms of the CCS as on 31 March, 2025 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature Nos. Notional Principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 139 24,339.23 Not Applicable Fixed Payable v/s Fixed Receivable
Trading 3 55.17 SARON Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 22.10 EURIBOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 34.69 TBILL Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 18.94 TONAR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 62 20,551.47 SOFR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 2 36.21 SARON Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 15 353.67 EURIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1 213.69 MIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1 427.38 TBILL Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 56 11,752.93 SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1 15.47 ESTR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1 322.31 SOFR/EURIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 3 782.77 SOFR/ESTR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 3 538.49 SOFR/MIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 2 527.18 SOFR/TONAR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 68.38 MIBOR/SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 13 1,713.77 MODMIFOR/SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 2 270.76 TONAR/SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 19 8,540.00 Not Applicable Fixed Receivable
Trading 22 1,090.33 Not Applicable Fixed Payable
349 71,674.94
389
Financial statements
The nature and terms of the CCS as on 31 March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature Nos. Notional Principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 131 21,995.08 Not Applicable Fixed Payable v/s Fixed Receivable
Trading 3 65.43 SARON Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 15 879.16 EURIBOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 42.88 TBILL Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 22.22 TONAR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 66 12,303.60 SOFR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 3 65.43 SARON Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 17 807.92 EURIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1 208.51 MIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 1 22.22 TONAR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 52 11,481.39 SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading 4 1,033.59 SOFR/ESTR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 4 1,478.67 SOFR/EURIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 3 525.45 SOFR/MIBOR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 3 646.51 SOFR/ TONAR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 4 1,306.33 EURIBOR/ SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 1 66.72 MIBOR/SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 16 2,297.81 MODMIFOR/SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 2 312.89 TONAR/SOFR Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 29 4,005.04 Not Applicable Fixed Receivable
Trading 6 923.99 Not Applicable Fixed Payable
363 60,490.84
b) Exchange Traded Interest Rate Derivatives
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Sr. As at
Particulars
No. 31 March, 2025
i) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives undertaken during the year
US 2 years Note - June 2024 196.59
US 5 years Note - June 2024 17.95
US 10 years Note - June 2024 23.93
US 10 years Note - September 2024 119.67
US 5 years Note - December 2024 68.38
US 10 years Note - December 2024 51.29
US 5 years Note - March 2025 68.38
US 10 years Note - March 2025 51.28
US 2 years Note - June 2025 581.23
US 5 years Note - June 2025 239.33
1,418.03
390 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(` in crores)
Sr. As at
Particulars
No. 31 March, 2025
ii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on -
31 March, 2025
iii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on
31 March, 2025 and “not highly effective” N.A.
iv) Mark-to-market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on 31 March, 2025 N.A.
and “not highly effective”
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
(` in crores)
Sr. As at
Particulars
No. 31 March, 2024
i) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives undertaken during the year
US 2 years Note - June 2023 642.22
US 5 years Note - June 2023 456.23
US 10 years Note - June 2023 121.77
US 2 years Note - September 2023 393.77
US 5 years Note - September 2023 170.15
US 10 years Note - September 2023 85.07
US 2 years Note - December 2023 233.53
US 5 years Note - December 2023 106.76
US 10 years Note - December 2023 60.05
US 2 years Note - March 2024 417.03
US 5 years Note - March 2024 101.75
US 10 years Note - March 2024 46.71
US 2 years Note - June 2024 191.83
US 5 years Note - June 2024 17.52
US 10 years Note - June 2024 23.53
3,067.64
ii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on
31 March, 2024
US 2 years Note - June 2024 191.83
US 5 years Note - June 2024 17.52
US 10 years Note - June 2024 23.35
232.70
iii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on
31 March, 2024 and “not highly effective” N.A.
iv) Mark-to-market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on 31 March, 2024
and “not highly effective” N.A.
c. Disclosure on risk exposure in Derivatives
Qualitative disclosures:
(a) Structure and organisation for management of risk in derivatives trading, the scope and nature of risk
measurement, risk reporting and risk monitoring systems, policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and
strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants:
391
Financial statements
Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from an underlying asset, or from interest
and exchange rates or indices. The Bank undertakes Over the Counter (OTC) and Exchange Traded derivative
transactions for Balance Sheet management and also for proprietary trading/market making whereby the Bank
offers OTC derivative products to the customers to enable them to hedge their interest rate and currency risks
within the prevalent regulatory guidelines.
Proprietary trading includes Exchange Traded Currency Options, Interest Rate Futures, Currency Futures and
Rupee Interest Rate Swaps under different benchmarks (viz. MIBOR, Modified MIFOR, LIBOR, ARR and INBMK),
Currency Options, Currency Swaps and Non Deliverable derivatives. The Bank also undertakes transactions
in Cross Currency Swaps, Principal Only Swaps, Coupon Only Swaps, Currency Options, Interest Rate Swaps,
Exotic Derivatives and Long Term Forex Contracts (LTFX) for hedging its Balance Sheet and also offers them
to its customers. These transactions expose the Bank to various risks, primarily credit, market, legal, reputation
and operational risk. The Bank has adopted the following mechanism for managing risks arising out of the
derivative transactions.
There is a functional separation between the Treasury Front Office, Treasury Mid Office and Treasury Back Office
to undertake derivative transactions. The customer and interbank related derivative transactions are originated
by Derivative sales and Treasury Front Office team respectively which ensures compliance with the trade
origination requirements as per the Bank’s policy and the RBI guidelines. The Market Risk Group within the Bank’s
Risk Department independently identifies, measures and monitors the market risks associated with derivative
transactions and apprises the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) and the Risk Management Committee
of the Board (RMC) on the compliance with the risk limits. The Treasury Back Office undertakes activities such as
trade validation, confirmation, settlement, ISDA and related documentation, post deal documentation, accounting,
valuation and other MIS reporting.
The derivative transactions are governed by the Derivative policy, Suitability and Appropriateness Policy
for derivative products, Market Risk Management policy, Hedging policy and the Asset Liability Management
(ALM) policy of the Bank as well as by the extant RBI guidelines. The Bank has implemented policy on customer
suitability & appropriateness to ensure that derivatives transactions entered into are appropriate and suitable
to the customer. The Bank has put in place a detailed process flow on documentation for customer derivative
transactions for effective management of operational/reputation/compliance risk.
Various risk limits are set up and actual exposures are monitored vis-à-vis the limits allocated. These limits are set
up taking into account market volatility, risk appetite, business strategy and management experience. Risk limits
are in place for risk parameters viz. PV01, VaR, Stop Loss, Delta, Gamma and Vega. Actual positions are monitored
against these limits on a daily basis and breaches, if any, are dealt with in accordance with board approved Risk
Appetite Statement. Risk assessment of the portfolio is undertaken periodically. The Bank ensures that the Gross
PV01 (Price value of a basis point) position arising out of all non-option rupee derivative contracts are within
0.25% of net worth of the Bank as on Balance Sheet date.
Hedging transactions are undertaken by the Bank to protect the variability in the fair value or the cash flow of the
underlying Balance Sheet item. These transactions are tested for hedge effectiveness and in case any transaction
fails the test, the same is re-designated as a trading deal and appropriate accounting treatment is followed.
(b) Accounting policy for recording hedge and non-hedge transactions, recognition of income, premiums and
discounts, valuation of outstanding contracts
Derivative transactions comprise of forward contracts, swaps, FRAs, futures and options which are disclosed as
contingent liabilities. These are categorised as trading or hedge transactions.
Trading derivative contracts are revalued based on actual traded and/or derived from curves published by external
market sources or FBIL with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive MTM) and in other liabilities (representing negative
MTM) on a gross basis. The premium on option contracts is accounted for as per FEDAI guidelines.
The Hedging Policy of the Bank governs the use of derivatives for hedging purpose. Subject to the prevailing RBI
guidelines, the Bank deals in derivatives for hedging fixed rate and floating rate coupon or foreign currency assets/
liabilities. Transactions for hedging and market making purposes are recorded separately.
392 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading (including funding swaps), that are entered into to
establish the amount of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are
outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. The premium or discount
arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line basis as expense or
income over the life of the contract.
For hedge transactions through other derivatives, the Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at
the inception of transaction itself. The effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge and
periodically thereafter. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and
hedged items are recognized in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges, the change in fair
value of hedging instrument for the effective portion is recognised in Schedule 2- ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under
‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’ and the ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, in an effective hedging
relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Derivative transactions are covered under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master
agreements with respective counterparties. The exposure on account of derivative transactions is computed as
per the RBI guidelines and is marked against the Loan Equivalent Risk (LER) limits approved for the respective
counterparties.
(c) Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
In accordance with RBI guidelines, any receivables (crystallised receivables and positive MTM) under derivatives
contracts, which remain overdue for more than 90 days, are reversed through the Profit and Loss Account and are
held in a separate Suspense account.
Collateral requirements for derivative transactions are laid down as part of credit sanction terms on a case by case
basis. Such collateral requirements are determined, based on usual credit appraisal process. The Bank retains the
right to terminate transactions as a risk mitigation measure in certain cases.
The credit risk in respect of customer derivative transactions is sought to be mitigated through a laid down policy
on sanction of Loan Equivalent Risk (LER) limits, monitoring mechanism for LER limits and trigger events for
escalation/margin calls/termination.
Quantitative disclosure on risk exposure in derivatives1:
(` in crores)
As at 31 March, 2025
Sr. Currency Derivatives
Particulars Interest rate
No. Forward
CCS Options Total Derivatives
Contracts4
1 Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a) For hedging 27,881.14 - - 27,881.14 743.63
b) For trading 1,228,707.33 71,674.94 133,300.09 1,433,682.36 1,163,789.08
2 Marked to Market Positions2,3
a) Asset (+) - 286.64 85.96 372.60 95.84
b) Liability (-) (107.97) - - (107.97) -
3 Credit Exposure3 37,215.37 7,807.39 4,181.19 49,203.95 17,506.59
4 Likely impact of one percentage change in
interest rate (100*PV01)
(as at 31 March, 2025)
a) on hedging derivatives 3.08 - - 3.08 26.48
b) on trading derivatives 43.47 235.89 9.48 288.84 1,027.00
5 Maximum and Minimum of 100*PV01
observed during the year
a) on hedging
i) Minimum 0.19 - - 0.19 26.48
393
Financial statements
(` in crores)
As at 31 March, 2025
Sr. Currency Derivatives
Particulars Interest rate
No. Forward
CCS Options Total Derivatives
Contracts4
ii) Maximum 7.08 - - 7.08 26.48
b) on Trading
i) Minimum 12.70 12.19 3.82 28.71 601.36
ii) Maximum 43.47 235.89 9.65 289.01 1,027.00
1. only Over The Counter derivatives included
2. represents net position
3. includes accrued interest
4. excluding Tom/Spot contracts
(` in crores)
As at 31 March, 2024
Sr. Currency Derivatives
Particulars Interest rate
No. Forward
CCS Options Total Derivatives
Contracts4
1 Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a) For hedging 34,073.74 - - 34,073.74 -
b) For trading 806,312.94 60,490.84 41,979.66 908,783.44 718,361.32
2 Marked to Market Positions2,3
a) Asset (+) - - 74.39 74.39 239.98
b) Liability (-) (624.82) (73.69) - (698.51) -
3 Credit Exposure3 22,671.78 7,396.52 1,399.28 31,467.58 13,868.89
4 Likely impact of one percentage change in
interest rate (100*PV01)
(as at 31 March, 2024)
a) on hedging derivatives 2.31 - - 2.31 -
b) on trading derivatives 10.23 45.37 7.20 62.80 382.83
5 Maximum and Minimum of 100*PV01
observed during the year
a) on hedging
i) Minimum - - - - -
ii) Maximum 3.09 - - 3.09 -
b) on Trading
i) Minimum 7.92 45.37 7.20 60.49 232.07
ii) Maximum 14.01 214.04 17.75 245.80 433.23
1. only Over The Counter derivatives included
2. only on trading derivatives and represents net position
3. includes accrued interest
4. excluding Tom/Spot contracts
The outstanding notional principal amount of Exchange Traded Interest Rate Futures as at 31 March, 2025 was `Nil
crores (previous year `232.70 crores) and the mark-to-market value was `Nil crores (previous year negative `0.33 crores).
The outstanding notional principal amount of Exchange Traded Currency Options as at 31 March, 2025 was `0.03
crores (previous year `125.25 crores) and the mark-to-market value was `Nil crores (previous year `0.35 crores).
d) The Bank has not undertaken any transactions in Credit Default Swaps (CDS) during the year ended
31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024.
394 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
1.8 Disclosures relating to securitisation
Details of securitisation transactions undertaken by the Bank under the RBI Master Direction on Securitisation of
Standard Assets, 2021 are given below:
(` in crores)
Sr. No. Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
1 No. of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions originated by the Bank - -
2 Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs - -
3 Total amount of exposures retained by the Bank to comply with MRR as on the date
of balance sheet
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
First loss - -
Others - -
b) On-balance sheet exposures
First loss - -
Others - -
4 Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than MRR
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
First loss - -
Others - -
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss - -
Others - -
b) On-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
First loss - -
Others - -
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss - -
Others - -
5 Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain/loss on sale on - -
account of securitization
6 Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services provided by way of, liquidity - -
support, post-securitisation assets servicing, etc.
7 Performance of facility provided
a) Amount paid - -
b) Repayment received - -
c) Outstanding amount - -
8 Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past - -
9 Amount and number of additional/ top up loan given on same underlying asset - -
10 Investor Complaints
a) Directly/indirectly received - -
b) Complaints outstanding - -
395
Financial statements
1.9 The Bank has not sponsored any special purpose vehicle which is required to be consolidated in the consolidated
financial statements as per accounting norms.
1.10 Disclosure on transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund)
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund 999.47 749.17
Add : Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year 321.40 288.44
Less : Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims1 (40.23) (38.14)
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund2 1,280.64 999.47
1. excludes interest post transfer to DEA Fund
2. Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund, as disclosed above, is also included under ‘Schedule-12- Contingent Liability
- Other items for which Bank is contingently liable’
1.11 Disclosure of customer complaints
a) Summary of information on complaints received by the Bank from customers and from Offices of Ombudsman (OBO)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Complaints received by the Bank from its customers
1. Number of complaints pending at the beginning of the year 20,754 16,830
2. Number of complaints received during the year 590,540 561,010
3. Number of complaints disposed during the year 600,151 557,086
of 3, number of complaints rejected by the Bank 140,802* 71,063*
4. Number of complaints pending at the end of the year 11,143 20,754
Maintainable complaints received by the Bank from OBOs
5. Number of maintainable complaints received by the Bank from OBOs 14,500 16,438
of 5, Number of complaints resolved in favour of the Bank by OBO’s 7,569 15,352
of 5, Number of complaints resolved through conciliation/ mediation/ advisories 6,928 1,086
issued by OBO’s
of 5, Number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by OBO’s against the 3** -
Bank
6. Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those appealed) - -
* Overall cases rejected and subsequently referred to Internal Ombudsman for the year ended 31 March, 2025 were 754,281 (previous year
251,777) which is aggregate of all interactions (includes Gross, Net & Other interaction types)
** Out of the 3 awards, 2 were issued and have since lapsed, while the remaining 1 award will be represented to Consumer Education and
Protection Department (CEPD), RBI for further advise
b) Overall complaints summary for the financial years:
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
A. Total number of complaints 1,099,448 1,220,500
B. Complaints redressed by the Bank within one working day 508,908 659,490
C. Net reportable complaints (A - B) 590,540 561,010
396 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
c) Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
% increase/
Number of decrease in
Number of Number of Of 5, number
complaints the number
Grounds of complaints, (i.e. complaints complaints complaints of complaints
pending at the of complaints
relating to) received during pending at the pending beyond
beginning of the received over
the year end of the year 30 days
year the previous
year
1 2 3 4 5 6
Credit cards 11,921 244,175 7% 3,251 488
Account opening/difficulty in operation 2,885 91,914 (13%) 2,132 178
of accounts
ATM/Debit cards 1,460 78,112 9% 1,103 103
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking 953 48,389 38% 1,331 337
Loans and advances 1,260 34,657 (20%) 965 150
Others 2,275 93,293 22% 2,361 396
Total 20,754 590,540 5% 11,143 1,652
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
% increase/
Number of
Number of decrease in Number of Of 5, number
complaints
Grounds of complaints, (i.e. complaints complaints the number complaints of complaints
pending at the
relating to) received during of complaints pending at the pending beyond
beginning of the
the year received over the end of the year 30 days
year
previous year
1 2 3 4 5 6
Credit cards 6,715 228,285 (32%) 11,921 2,537
Account opening/difficulty in 2,288 105,923 (33%) 2,885 445
operation of accounts
ATM/Debit cards 2,282 71,895 (50%) 1,460 44
Loans and advances 830 43,304 (57%) 1,260 128
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking 2,380 35,126 (70%) 953 198
Others 2,335 76,477 (14%) 2,275 338
Total 16,830 561,010 (41%) 20,754 3,690
The above disclosures do not include complaints redressed within 1 working day and are as certified by the Management
and relied upon by the auditors.
1.12 Details of penalty/stricture levied by RBI
Details of penalty/stricture levied by RBI during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is as under:
Amount
Reason for stricture issued/levy of penalty by RBI Date of payment of penalty
(` in crores)
1.91 Penalty imposed for non-compliance with provisions of Section 19 (1) (a) of the Banking 12 September, 2024
Regulation Act, 1949 and for non compliance with certain directions issued by RBI on
‘Interest Rate on Deposits’, ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)’ and ‘Credit flow to agriculture-
collateral free agricultural loans’.
397
Financial statements
Details of penalty/stricture levied by RBI during the year ended 31 March, 2024 is as under:
Amount
Reason for stricture issued/levy of penalty by RBI Date of payment of penalty
(` in crores)
0.30 Penalty imposed for non-compliance with certain provisions of the RBI directions on 27 June, 2023
‘Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning pertaining
to Advances – Credit Card Accounts’
0.91 Penalty imposed for non-compliance with certain directions issued by RBI on ‘Reserve Bank 17 November, 2023
of India (Know Your Customer (KYC)) Directions, 2016’, ‘Loans and Advances – Statutory
and Other Restrictions’, ‘Guidelines on Managing Risks and Code of Conduct in Outsourcing
of Financial Services by banks’ and ‘Code of Conduct for Opening and Operating Current
Accounts’
1.13 Disclosure on Remuneration
Qualitative disclosures
a) Information relating to the composition and mandate of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
 Name, composition and mandate of the main body overseeing remuneration:
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board oversees the framing, review and implementation of
the compensation policy of the Bank on behalf of the Board. The Committee works in close co-ordination with the
Risk Management Committee of the Bank, in order to achieve effective alignment between remuneration and risks.
As on 31 March, 2025, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprised of the following Non-
Executive Directors:
1. Smt. Meena Ganesh – Chairperson
2. Smt. Mini Ipe
3. Shri Girish Paranjpe
4. Shri N.S. Vishwanathan
I n respect of Remuneration/HR matters, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board, functions
with the following main objectives:
a. Review and recommend to the Board for approval, the overall remuneration framework and associated
policies of the Bank (including remuneration policy for Directors and Key Managerial Personnel) including
the level and structure of fixed pay, variable pay, perquisites, bonus pool, stock-based compensation and any
other form of compensation as may be included from time to time to all the employees of the Bank including
the Managing Director & CEO (MD & CEO), other Whole-Time Directors (WTDs) and senior managers one
level below the Board.
b. Recommend to the Board the compensation payable to the Chairman of the Bank.
c. Review and recommend to the Board for approval, the talent management and succession policy and process
in the Bank for ensuring business continuity, especially at the level of MD & CEO, the other WTDs, senior
managers’ one level below the Board and other key roles and their progression to the Board.
d. Formulate the criteria and the manner for effective evaluation of performance of the Board as a whole, its
Committees and individual directors, including independent directors of the Bank, which may be carried out
either by the Committee or by the Board or with the help of an independent external agency and to review
its implementation, compliance and outcomes.
e. Review adequacy and appropriateness of HR strategy of the Bank in the broader areas of code of conduct,
ethics, conflict of interest, succession planning, talent management, performance management, remuneration
and HR risk management.
398 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
f. Review and recommend to the Board for approval:
 the creation of new positions one level below MD & CEO
 appointments, promotions and exits of senior managers one level below the MD & CEO
g. Set the goals, objectives and performance benchmarks for the Bank and for MD & CEO, WTDs and Group
Executives for the financial year and over the medium to long term.
h. Review the performance of the MD & CEO and other WTDs at the end of each year.
i. Consider and approve the grant of Stock Options to the Managing Director & CEO, other Whole-Time
Directors, Senior Management and other eligible employees of the Bank / subsidiary, in terms of the relevant
provisions of the SEBI Regulations, as amended, from time to time.
j. Perform such other duties as may be required to be done under any law, statute, rules, regulations etc.
enacted by Government of India, Reserve Bank of India or by any other regulatory or statutory body.
 External consultants whose advice has been sought, the body by which they were commissioned, and in what
areas of the remuneration process:
T he Bank commissioned Aon Consulting Pvt. Limited (Aon), a globally renowned compensation benchmarking firm,
to conduct market benchmarking of employee compensation. The Bank participates in the salary benchmarking
survey conducted by Aon every year. Aon collects data from multiple private sector peer banks across functions,
levels and roles which is then used by the Bank to assess market competitiveness of remuneration offered
to employees.
 A description of the scope of the Bank’s remuneration policy, including the extent to which it is applicable to
branches in India and overseas:
T he Committee monitors the remuneration policy for both domestic and overseas branches of the Bank on behalf
of the Board. However, it does not oversee the compensation policy for subsidiaries of the Bank.
 A description of the type of employees covered and number of such employees:
Employees are categorised into following three categories from remuneration structure and
administration standpoint:
Category 1
MD & CEO and WTDs. This category includes 4* employees.
Category 2
All the employees in the Grade of Senior Vice President I and above engaged in the functions of Risk Control,
Internal Audit and Compliance. This category includes 107* employees.
Category 3: Other Staff
‘Other Staff’ has been defined as a “group of employees whose actions have a material impact on the risk exposure
of the Bank”. This category includes 25* employees.
*represents employees in these categories during the year FY 2024-25 including employees exited from the Bank
during FY 2024-25.
b) Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and objectives
of remuneration policy:
 An overview of the key features and objectives of remuneration policy:
The compensation philosophy of the Bank aims to attract, retain and motivate professionals in order to enable the
Bank to attain its strategic objectives and develop a strong performance culture in the competitive environment in
which it operates. To achieve this, the following principles are adopted:
399
Financial statements
Affordability: Pay to reflect productivity improvements to retain cost-income competitiveness
- Maintain competitiveness on fixed pay in talent market
- Pay for performance to drive meritocracy through variable pay
- Employee Stock Units (ESUs) and Employee Stock Options (ESOPs) for long-term value creation
- Benefits and perquisites to remain aligned with market practices and provide flexibility
Apart from the above, the compensation structure for MD & CEO, WTDs, Material Risk Takers and employees
at the grade of Senior Vice President and above within the Assurance functions at the Bank is aligned to RBI’s
guidelines for sound compensation practices issued in November 2019 and addresses the general principles of:
- Effective and independent governance and monitoring of compensation
- Alignment of compensation with prudent risk-taking through well designed and consistent
compensation structures
- Clear and timely disclosure to facilitate supervisory oversight by all stakeholders
Accordingly, the compensation policy for MD & CEO and WTDs seeks to:
a) Ensure that the compensation, in terms of structure and total amount, is in line with the best practices, as well
as competitive vis-à-vis that of peer banks
b) Establish the linkage of compensation with individual performance as well as achievement of the corporate
objectives of the Bank
c) Include an appropriate variable pay component tied to the achievement of pre-established objectives in line
with Bank’s scorecard while ensuring that the compensation is aligned with prudent risk taking
d) Encourage attainment of long term shareholder returns through inclusion of equity linked long-term incentives
as part of compensation
Compensation is structured in terms of fixed pay, cash variable pay and share linked instruments (for selective
employees), with a strong linkage of variable pay to performance. The remuneration policy of the Bank is approved
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Bank. Additional approval
from Shareholders and RBI is obtained specifically for compensation of MD & CEO and WTDs.
 Whether the remuneration committee reviewed the firm’s remuneration policy during the past year, and if so, an
overview of any changes that were made:
The Bank’s remuneration policy was originally reviewed and approved by the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and Board of Directors in FY2021 in order to align with RBI guidelines. The remuneration policy of the
Bank is reviewed annually and any changes arising therefrom are approved by the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and Board of Directors.
Key highlights of the policy are mentioned below:
• At least 50% of total compensation i.e. Fixed Pay plus Total Variable Pay shall be variable.
• Value of share linked instruments will be included in definition of ‘Total Variable Pay’
• ‘Total Variable Pay’ for the MD & CEO/ Whole-time Directors/ Material Risk Takers of the Bank would be
capped at 300% of Fixed Pay.
• If the ‘Total Variable Pay’ is up to 200% of the Fixed Pay, a minimum of 50% of the Variable pay; and in case
Variable Pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the Variable Pay shall be paid via employee stock options.
• Minimum 60% of the ‘Total Variable Pay’ shall be deferred over 3 years. If cash component is part of ‘Total
Variable Pay’, at least 50% of the cash component of variable pay should also be deferred over 3 years. In
cases where the cash component of Total Variable pay is under `. 25 lakh, variable pay shall not be deferred.
• All the fixed items of compensation, including retiral benefits and perquisites, will be treated as part of Fixed Pay.
400 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
• Qualitative and quantitative criteria defined for identification of Material Risk Takers (MRTs).
• Specific guidelines on application of malus and clawback clauses.
 A discussion of how the Bank ensures that risk, internal audit and compliance employees are remunerated
independently of the businesses they oversee:
The Bank ensures that risk, internal audit and compliance employees are remunerated independently of the
businesses they oversee and is guided by the individual employee performance. The remuneration is determined
on the basis of relevant risk measures included in the Balanced Scorecard / key deliverables of staff in these
functions. The parameters reviewed for performance-based rewards are independent of performance of the
business area they oversee and commensurate with their individual role in the Bank. Additionally, the ratio of fixed
and variable compensation is weighed towards fixed compensation in case of employees in risk, internal audit, and
compliance functions.
c) Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration processes:
 An overview of the key risks that the Bank takes into account when implementing remuneration measures:
The business activity of the Bank is undertaken within the limits of risk measures to achieve the financial plan. The
Financial Perspective in the Bank’s Balanced Score Card (BSC) contains metrics pertaining to growth, profitability
and asset quality. These metrics along with other metrics in customer, internal process and compliance and people
perspective are taken into account while arriving at the remuneration decisions. The metrics on internal process
and compliance ensure due weightage to non – financial risk that bank may be exposed to. The Remuneration
Policy also contains provisions whereby the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Bank may review
and approve the invoking of malus and/or clawback of compensation elements pertaining to the MD & CEO,
WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank, including consideration of facts on a case to case basis and
application of internal and external benchmarks.
 An overview of the nature and type of key measures used to take account of these risks, including risk
difficult to measure:
The Bank has a robust system of measuring and reviewing these risks. The risk parameters are a part of the
BSC used for setting of performance objectives and for measuring performance which includes, besides financial
performance, adherence to internal processes, compliance and people perspectives. Weightage is placed on
not only financial or quantitative achievement of objectives but also on qualitative aspects detailing how the
objectives were achieved.
 A discussion of the ways in which these measures affect remuneration:
The relevant risk measures are included in the scorecards of MD & CEO and WTDs. Inclusion of the above mentioned
measures ensures that performance parameters are aligned to risk measures at the time of performance evaluation.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee takes into consideration all the above aspects while assessing
organisational and individual performance and making compensation related recommendations to the Board.
 A discussion of how the nature and type of these measures have changed over the past year and reasons for the
changes, as well as the impact of changes on remuneration:
The Bank continued to track key metrics across financial, customer, internal process and compliance and people
perspective as part of FY 25 BSC. For FY 2024-25, metrics linked to Bank’s strategy, with focus on health metrics,
sustainability, specifically on capital position and building distinctiveness were incorporated. Further, critical
deliverables were included to drive progress as per the Bank’s Growth, Profitability Score strategy.
d) Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement period
with levels of remuneration:
The Bank’s performance management and compensation philosophies are structured to support the achievement
of the Bank’s on-going business objectives by rewarding achievement of objectives linked directly to its strategic
business priorities. These strategic priorities are cascaded through annualised objectives to the employees.
401
Financial statements
The Bank follows the Balanced Scorecard approach in designing its performance management system. Adequate
attention is given to the robust goal setting process to ensure alignment of individual objectives to support the
achievement of business strategy, financial and non-financial goals across and through the organisation. The non-
financial goals for employees include customer service, process improvement, adherence to risk and compliance
norms, operations and process control, learning and knowledge development.
 An overview of main performance metrics for Bank, top level business lines and individuals:
The Bank follows a Balanced Scorecard approach for measuring performance for the Bank, top business lines
and individuals.
 A discussion of how amounts of individual remuneration are linked to the Bank-wide and individual performance:
The Bank’s remuneration practices are underpinned by principles of meritocracy and fairness. The remuneration
system strives to maintain the ability to attract, retain, reward and motivate the talent in order to enable the Bank
to attain its strategic objectives within the increasingly competitive context in which it operates. The Bank’s pay-
for-performance approach strives to ensure both internal and external equity in line with emerging market trends.
However, the business model and affordability form the overarching boundary conditions.
The Bank follows a Balanced Scorecard approach for measuring performance at senior levels. The Balanced
Scorecard parameters for individuals are cascaded from the Bank’s Balanced Scorecard. The Nomination and
Remuneration Committee reviews the achievements against the set of parameters which determines the
performance of the individuals.
For all other employees, performance appraisals are conducted annually and initiated by the employee with self-
appraisal. The immediate supervisor reviews the appraisal ratings in a joint consultation meeting with the employee
and assigns the performance rating. The final ratings are discussed by a Moderation Committee comprising of
senior officials of the Bank. Both relative and absolute individual performances are considered for the moderation
process. Individual fixed pay increases, variable pay, ESUs and ESOPs are linked to the final performance ratings.
 A discussion of the measures the Bank will in general implement to adjust remuneration in the event that
performance metrics are weak:
In cases where the performance metrics are weak or not well defined to measure the performance effectively,
the Bank uses discretion to reward such employees. The remuneration is then influenced by the operational
performance parameters of the Bank along with individual performance achievement.
Whilst determining fixed and variable remuneration, relevant risk measures are included in scorecards of
senior employees.
As a prudent measure, for Material Risk Takers, a portion of variable pay if it exceeds a certain threshold is deferred
and is paid proportionately over a period of 3 years. The deferred variable pay amount of reference year would be
held back in case of any misrepresentation or gross inaccuracy resulting in a wrong risk assessment.
e) Description of the bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and a discussion of the bank’s policy
and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and after vesting.:
i) Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration:
For MD&CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank, minimum 60% of the Total Variable Pay
(including Cash Variable Pay and Stock Options) is deferred over 3 years or such other period as prescribed by
RBI where applicable. In case the cash component is part of Total Variable Pay and exceeds ` 25 lakhs, at least
50% of the cash component of variable pay is also deferred over 3 years or such other period as prescribed by RBI
where applicable.
The Total Variable Pay for MD&CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank is subject to malus and
clawback clauses, as defined in the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
402 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
ii) Bank’s policy and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and after vesting through claw
back arrangements:
The Total Variable Pay for MD&CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank is subject to malus and
clawback clauses, which are defined in the Remuneration Policy of the Bank. Detailed scenarios under which
said clauses can be applied, such as event of an enquiry determining gross negligence or breach of integrity, or
significant deterioration in financial performance are defined in the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
f) Description of the different forms of variable remuneration that the Bank utilizes and the rationale for using these
different forms:
 An overview of the forms of variable remuneration offered:
• Variable Pay: Variable Pay is linked to corporate performance, business performance and individual
performance and ensures differential pay based on the performance levels of employees
• Employee Stock Options (ESOPs): ESOPs are given to selective set of employees at senior levels based on
their level of performance and role. ESOP scheme has an inbuilt deferred vesting design which helps in
directing long term performance orientation among employees.
• Employee Stock Units (ESUs): ESUs are given to employees between the grades of AVP and SVP II based on
their level of performance. The ESU scheme has an inbuilt deferred vesting design which helps in directing
long term performance orientation among employees.
 A discussion of the use of different forms of variable remuneration including a description of the factors that
determine the mix and their relative importance:
Variable pay in the form of performance based bonus is paid out annually and is linked to performance achievement
against balanced performance measures and aligned with the principles of meritocracy. The proportion of variable
pay in total pay shall be higher at senior management levels. The payment of all forms of variable pay is governed by
the affordability of the Bank and based on profitability and cost income ratios. At senior management levels (and
for certain employees with potential to cause material impact on risk exposure), a portion of variable compensation
may be paid out in a deferred manner in order to drive prudent behaviour as well as long term & sustainable
performance orientation. Long term variable pay is administered in the form of ESOPs and ESUs with an objective
of enabling employee participation in the business as an active stakeholder and to usher in an ‘owner-manager’
culture. The quantum of grant of stock options is determined and approved by the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, in terms of the said Regulations and in line with best practices, subject to the approval of RBI. The
current ESOP and ESU design has an inbuilt deferral intended to spread and manage risk.
Quantitative disclosures
a) The quantitative disclosures pertaining to the MD & CEO, Whole Time Directors and Material Risk Takers for
the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024 are given below:
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
a. i) Number of meetings held by the Remuneration Committee (main 12 12
body overseeing remuneration) during the financial year
ii) Remuneration paid to its members (sitting fees) `4,800,000 `4,700,000
b. Number of employees having received a variable remuneration award 28 25
during the financial year
c. Number and total amount of sign-on/joining bonus made during the
financial year
- Share-linked instruments (number of stock options granted) 162,387 395,976
- Fair value of share linked instruments `6.41 crores1 `11.75 crores1
- Cash `0.06 crores -
d. Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued benefits, if any N.A. N.A.
e. Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration, split into:
- Cash `29.88 crores `24.46 crores
- Shares - -
403
Financial statements
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
- Share-linked instruments (number of unvested stock options outstanding 3,275,367 options 3,159,624 options
as on 31 March and fair value of the same) with a fair value of with a fair value of
`109.52 crores1 `87.53 crores1
f. Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial year:
- Cash `11.30 crores `6.87 crores
- Share-linked instruments (number of stock options vested during the year 1,440,342 Options 2,753,690 Options
and fair value of the same) with a fair value of with a fair value of
`38.39 crores1 `67.02 crores1
g. Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the financial year to
show fixed and variable, deferred and non-deferred, different forms used:
- Fixed ` 70.55 crores2 `66.32 crores2
- Variable `117.41 crores `113.39 crores
- Deferred `100.61 crores `100.01 crores
- of which, cash `16.73 crores1 `13.18 crores1
- of which, share-linked instruments `83.88 crores fair `86.83 crores fair
value of 2,323,007 value of 2,877,862
options granted options granted
during the year1 during the year1
- Non-deferred `16.79 crores `13.38 crores
h. Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained N.A. N.A.
remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and/or implicit adjustments
i. Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex- post explicit N.A. N.A.
adjustments
j. Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex- post implicit N.A. N.A.
adjustments
k. Number of MRT's identified 29 27
l. Number of cases where
Nil Nil
- malus has been exercised
Nil Nil
- clawback has been exercised Nil Nil
- both malus and clawback have been exercised
m. The mean pay for the Bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the
deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean
Mean pay of the Bank3 `1,228,403 `1,186,330
Deviation of the pay of WTDs from the mean pay for the Bank
- MD & CEO ` 79,639,332 `77,944,261
- DMD `51,751,906 `50,569,977
- WTD 1 `42,363,331 `32,619,849
- WTD 2 `41,763,292 `27,804,074
1. Fair value is the weighted average fair value of stock options computed using Black-Scholes options pricing model as on the grant
date
2. Fixed pay includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation, contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund and value
of perquisites. The value of perquisites is calculated as cost to the Bank
3. Mean pay is computed on annualised fixed pay of all confirmed employees (excluding frontline sales and overseas employess) as
on 31 March. Fixed pay includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation, contribution to provident fund, gratuity
fund and value of perquisites. The value of perquisites is calculated as cost to the Bank
Disclosure for compensation of Non-executive Directors (Except Part-time Chairman):
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
a. Amount of fixed remuneration paid during the year 2.14 1.66
404 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
1.14 Other Disclosures
a) Business ratios
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
As at
% %
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1 8.10 8.05
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds1 1.67 1.65
Cost of Deposits 5.12 4.86
Net Interest Margin2 3.98 4.07
Operating profit3 as a percentage to working funds1 2.78 2.73
Return on assets (based on working funds1) 1.74 1.83
Business (deposits less inter-bank deposits plus advances) per employee4 `20.88 crores `20.19 crores
Profit per employee4 `0.25 crores `0.25 crores
1. Working funds represent average of total assets as reported to RBI in Form X under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
during the year
2. Net Interest Income/Average Earning Assets. Net Interest Income = Interest Income – Interest Expense
3. Operating profit represents total income as reduced by interest expended and operating expenses
4. Productivity ratios are based on average employee numbers for the year
b) Bancassurance business
(` in crores)
Sr. No. Nature of Income 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
1. For selling life insurance policies 2,746.91 1,979.26
2. For selling non-life insurance policies 427.36 383.97
Total 3,174.27 2,363.23
c) Marketing and Distribution business
(` in crores)
Sr. No. Nature of Income 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
1. Mutual funds 649.17 536.16
2. Alternate products 206.51 166.15
3. Government bonds 1.43 7.06
4. Fees for display of publicity material 257.85 224.70
5. Others 36.21 22.59
Total 1,151.17 956.66
d) Disclosure regarding Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs) purchased/sold by the Bank:
Details of PSLCs purchased by the Bank:
(` in crores)
Category 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
PSLC – Small/Marginal Farmers 72,453.50 37,045.00
Total 72,453.50 37,045.00
405
Financial statements
Details of PSLCs sold by the Bank
(` in crores)
Category 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
PSLC – Agriculture 32,000.00 8,485.00
PSLC – Micro Enterprises 35,000.00 -
PSLC – General - 75,294.50
Total 67,000.00 83,779.50
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank incurred a cost of `1,483.53 crores (previous year `819.38 crores)
excluding taxes, towards purchase of PSLCs which forms part of ‘Other Expenditure’ under Schedule 16 of the Profit
and Loss Account. Further, during the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank also earned fees of `196.89 crores (previous
year `57.42 crores) excluding taxes, on sale of PSLCs which forms part of ‘Miscellaneous Income’ under Schedule 14 of
the Profit and Loss Account.
e) ‘Provisions and contingencies’ recognised in the Profit and Loss Account comprise of:
(` in crores)
For the year ended 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Provision for income tax
- Current tax 7,477.20 7,184.37
- Deferred tax [Refer note 18 (2.8)] 495.90 1,014.26
7,973.10 8,198.63
Provision for non-performing assets (including bad debts written off net of write backs and 7,546.77 3,680.90
recoveries in written off accounts) 1
Provision for restructured assets (0.80) (0.66)
Provision for COVID-19 restructuring & MSME restructuring (143.48) (279.35)
Provision towards standard assets 65.56 208.28
Provision for unhedged foreign currency exposures (54.74) 91.57
Provision for country risk 10.57 6.13
Additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan (38.44) 49.18
Provision for probable legal cases 527.55 12.56
Provision for other contingencies (154.64) 294.48
Total 15,731.45 12,261.72
1. includes provision for non-performing advances of `11,578.59 crores (previous year `6,595.54 crores) and write-back of provision on
non-performing investments of `222.51 crores (previous year provision of `142.07 crores), net of recoveries from written off accounts
of `3,809.31 crores (previous year `2,772.57 crores)
f) Status of implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS):
The RBI had issued a circular in February 2016 requiring banks to implement Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
and prepare standalone and consolidated Ind AS financial statements with effect from 1 April, 2018. Banks were also
required to report the comparative financial statements for the financial year 2017-18, to be published along with the
financial statement for the year beginning 1 April, 2018. However, the RBI in its press release issued on 5 April, 2018
deferred the applicability of Ind AS by one year (i.e. 1 April, 2019) for Scheduled Commercial Banks. Further, RBI in a
circular issued on 22 March, 2019 has deferred the implementation of Ind AS till further notice.
During the financial year 2016-17, the Bank had undertaken a preliminary diagnostic analysis of the GAAP differences
between Indian GAAP vis-a-vis Ind AS. The Bank has also identified and evaluated data gaps, processes and system
changes required to implement Ind AS. The Bank is in the process of implementing necessary changes in its IT systems
wherever required and other processes in a phased manner. The Bank is also submitting Proforma Ind AS financial
statements to RBI on a half-yearly basis.
In line with the RBI guidelines on Ind AS implementation, the Bank has formed a Steering Committee comprising
members from the concerned functional areas, headed by the Deputy Managing Director. The Steering Committee
406 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
reviews the proforma Ind AS financial statements and provides guidance on critical areas of implementation on a
periodic basis. A progress report on the status of Ind AS implementation in the Bank is presented to the Audit Committee
and Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Accounting impact on the application of Ind AS shall be recognized as and
when it become statutorily applicable to banks and in the manner so prescribed.
g) Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium1 1,240.30 1,104.94
Arrears in payment of DICGC premium - -
Total 1,240.30 1,104.94
1. Amount reported is excluding GST
h) Disclosure on provisioning pertaining to Land held under ‘Non-Banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims’
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Amount of Land held under ‘Non-Banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims’ at the end 1,855.85 1,855.85
of the year
Provision held at the beginning of the year 1,855.85 2,068.24
Provisions made during the year by debiting profit and loss account - -
Provisions reversed during the year - (212.39)
Provisions held at the end of the year 1,855.85 1,855.85
Unamortised provision debited from ‘Balance in profit and loss account’ under ‘Reserves and - -
Surplus’
i) Letters of Comfort
The Bank has not issued any Letter of Comfort (LoC) on behalf of its subsidiaries during the current and previous year.
j) Portfolio-level information regarding the use of the green deposit funds as required under “Framework for acceptance
of Green Deposits” issued by RBI :
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024 Cumulative
Total green deposits raised (A) - - -
Use of green deposit funds
1) Renewable Energy - - -
2) Energy Efficiency - - -
3) Clean Transportation - - -
4) Climate Change Adaptation - - -
5) Sustainable Water and Waste Management - - -
6) Pollution Prevention and Control - - -
7) Green Buildings - - -
8) Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use - - -
9) Terrestrial and Aquatic Biodiversity Conservation - - -
Total Green Deposit funds allocated (B = Sum of 1 to 9) - - -
Amount of Green Deposit funds not allocated (C = A – B) - - -
Details of the temporary allocation of green deposit proceeds pending their - - -
allocation to the eligible green activities/projects
407
Financial statements
k) Details of Others (including provisions) in Other Liabilities and Provisions of Schedule 5 of Balance Sheet exceeding 1%
of Total Assets
As at 31 March, 2025
Sr. No. Particulars (` in crores)
1. Mark-to-Market (MTM) liability on forex and derivative contracts 19,928.54
As on 31 March, 2024, none of the items under Others (including provisions) in Other Liabilities and Provisions of
Schedule 5 of Balance Sheet exceeded 1% of Total Assets.
l) Details of Others in Other Assets of Schedule 11 of Balance Sheet exceeding 1% of Total Assets
As at 31 March, 2025
Sr. No. Particulars (` in crores)
1. Mark-to-Market (MTM) assets on forex and derivative contracts 20,496.42
As at 31 March, 2024
Sr. No. Particulars (` in crores)
1. Priority Sector Shortfall Deposits 21,557.10
m) Miscellaneous income exceeding 1% of the total income
During the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, none of the items under miscellaneous income (Schedule
14 – Other Income) have exceeded 1% of total income of the Bank.
n) Expenses exceeding 1% of the total income
Details of items under other expenditure (Schedule 16 – Operating Expenses) exceeding 1% of total income of the Bank
are given below:
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
Sr. No. Nature of Expense (` in crores)
1. Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA) 2,619.66
2. Charges paid to network partners 1,629.80
3. Cashback charges 1,594.58
4. Charges paid for purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (excluding taxes) 1,483.53
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Sr. No. Nature of Expense (` in crores)
1. Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA) 1,963.00
2. Professional fees 1,924.18
3. Cashback charges 1,807.75
4. Business promotion expenses 1,627.88
5. Charges paid to network partners 1,517.65
2. Other Disclosures
2.1 Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’)
The details of EPS computation is set out below:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Basic and Diluted earnings for the year (Net profit after tax) (` in crores) 26,373.48 24,861.43
Basic weighted average no. of shares (in crores) 309.26 308.17
408 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Add: Equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/units under ESOP/ 1.84 2.23
ESU scheme (in crores)
Diluted weighted average no. of shares (in crores) 311.10 310.40
Basic EPS (`) 85.28 80.67
Less: Effect of potential equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/ (0.51) (0.57)
units under ESOP/ESU scheme (`)
Diluted EPS (`) 84.77 80.10
Nominal value of shares (`) 2.00 2.00
Dilution of equity is on account of 18,432,380 stock options/units (previous year 22,287,930 stock options/units)
2.2 Employee Stock Options/Units
Over the period till 31 March 2025, pursuant to the approval of the shareholders, the Bank has framed Employee
Stock Option Schemes for options aggregating 315,087,000 that vest in a graded manner over 3 to 4 years, subject
to vesting conditions. The options can be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Further, pursuant
to the approval of the shareholders in January 2023, the Bank also framed an Employee Stock Units (ESUs) Scheme
aggregating to 50,000,000 units, that vest in a graded manner over 3 years, subject to vesting conditions. The ESUs can
be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Within the respective overall ceilings of options/units, the
Bank is authorised to issue options/units to eligible employees and Whole Time Directors (including those of subsidiary
companies and Associate entity).
324,312,311 options and 2,704,077 ESUs have been granted under the Schemes till the previous year ended
31 March, 2024. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the approval of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, the Bank granted options/units (each option representing entitlement to one equity share of the Bank) to
eligible employees/directors of the Bank/subsidiary companies as set out below:
Grant price
Date of grant Options / ESUs No. of options granted
(` per option/ units)
25 April, 2024 Options 7,019,246 1,063.25
25 April, 2024 ESUs 2,408,870 2.00
11 July, 2024 Options 86,261 1,291.65
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below:
Weighted average
Options Range of exercise Weighted average remaining
outstanding prices (`) exercise price (`) contractual life
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 52,199,448 469.90 to 929.80 712.34 4.27
Granted during the year 7,105,507 1,063.25 to 1,291.65 1,066.02 -
Forfeited during the year (2,455,328) 469.90 to 1,063.25 820.58 -
Expired during the year (102,753) 469.90 to 757.10 654.80 -
Exercised during the year (10,393,527) 469.90 to 848.80 659.82 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 46,353,347 488.35 to 1,291.65 772.73 4.01
Exercisable at the end of the year 34,860,694 488.35 to 1,063.25 707.90 3.32
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,143.23.
409
Financial statements
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below:
Weighted average
Units Weighted average remaining
Exercise price (`)
outstanding exercise price (`) contractual life
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,534,240 2.00 2.00 6.09
Granted during the year 2,408,870 2.00 2.00 -
Forfeited during the year (270,729) 2.00 2.00 -
Expired during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year (405,164) 2.00 2.00 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,267,217 2.00 2.00 5.75
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,057,224 2.00 2.00 4.63
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,146.05.
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below:
Weighted average
Options Range of exercise Weighted average
remaining contractual
outstanding prices (`) exercise price (`)
life (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 51,107,688 433.10 to 804.80 653.48 4.37
Granted during the year 12,705,878 848.80 to 929.80 848.84 -
Forfeited during the year (1,829,116) 469.90 to 848.80 756.94 -
Expired during the year (82,360) 469.90 to 535.00 505.43 -
Exercised during the year (9,702,642) 433.10 to 848.80 574.29 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 52,199,448 469.90 to 929.80 712.34 4.27
Exercisable at the end of the year 37,480,122 469.90 to 929.80 678.79 3.46
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,003.21.
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below:
Weighted average
Units Range of exercise Weighted average
remaining contractual
outstanding prices (`) exercise price (`)
life (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year - - - -
Granted during the year 2,704,077 2.00 2.00 -
Forfeited during the year (154,116) 2.00 2.00 -
Expired during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year (15,721) 2.00 2.00 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,534,240 2.00 2.00 6.09
Exercisable at the end of the year 749,823 2.00 2.00 4.98
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,044.23.
Fair Value Methodology
In line with RBI clarification on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/Chief Executive Officers/
Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff issued on 30 August, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method
for all share-linked instruments granted after 31 March, 2021 and consequently recognizes the fair value of options
computed using the Black-Scholes model, without reducing estimated forfeitures, as a compensation expense over the
vesting period. During the year, the Bank has recognised compensation cost of `365.79 crores (previous year `400.70
crores) for options/units granted to employees of the Bank and recovered `58.18 crores (previous year `53.63 crores)
from group entities in respect of options/units granted to the employees and deputed staff at group entities.
410 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
The fair value of the options/units is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes options pricing model,
with the following assumptions:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
ESOP ESU ESOP ESU
Dividend yield 0.09% 0.09% 0.26% 0.26%
Expected life 2.95-5.95 years 1-3 years 2.95-5.95 years 1-3 years
Risk free interest rate 6.85% to 7.09% 6.95% to 7.06% 6.79% to 7.17% 6.94% to 7.12%
Volatility 24.00% to 29.15% 19.89% to 24.01% 29.90% to 38.27% 25.28% to 31.99%
Volatility is the measure of the amount by which a price has fluctuated or is expected to fluctuate during a period.
The measure of volatility used in the Black-Scholes options pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the
continuously compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. For calculating volatility, the daily volatility
of the stock prices on the National Stock Exchange, over a period prior to the date of grant, corresponding with the
expected life of the options has been considered.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `358.68 (previous
year `297.95).
The weighted average fair value of units granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `1,059.51
(previous year `842.45).
2.3 Proposed Dividend
The Board of Directors, in their meeting held on 24 April, 2025 have proposed a final dividend of `1 per equity share
amounting to `309.74 crores. The proposal is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In terms of revised Accounting Standard (AS) 4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance sheet date’
as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, such
proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability as on 31 March, 2025.
During the year, the Bank paid final dividend of `1 per equity share amounting `309.09 crores pertaining to the previous
year ended 31 March, 2024.
2.4 Segmental reporting
The business of the Bank is divided into four segments: Treasury, Retail Banking, Corporate/Wholesale Banking and
Other Banking Business. These segments have been identified based on the RBI’s revised guidelines on Segment
Reporting issued on 18 April, 2007 vide Circular No. DBOD.No.BP.BC.81/21.04.018/2006-07. The principal activities
of these segments are as under.
Segment Principal Activities
Treasury Treasury operations include investments in sovereign and corporate debt, equity and mutual funds,
trading operations, derivative trading and foreign exchange operations on the proprietary account and
for customers. The Treasury segment also includes the central funding unit.
Retail Banking Constitutes lending to individuals/small businesses through the branch network and other delivery
channels subject to the orientation, nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum
thereof. Retail Banking activities also include liability products, card services, internet banking, mobile
banking, ATM services, depository, financial advisory services and NRI services.
Digital Banking In accordance with RBI circular DOR.AUT.REC.12/22.01.001/2022-23 dated 7 April 2022 on
(Sub- segment of Retail Establishment of Digital Banking Units, the Bank has presented ‘Digital Banking’ as a sub-segment of the
Banking) Retail Banking segment.
Corporate/Wholesale Includes corporate relationships not included under Retail Banking, corporate advisory services,
Banking placements and syndication, project appraisals, capital market related services and cash management
services.
Other Banking Business Includes para banking activities like third party product distribution and other banking transactions not
covered under any of the above three segments.
Unallocated assets and liabilities - All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment
such as deferred tax, tax paid in advance net of provision, provision for other contingencies towards potential
411
Financial statements
expected losses etc.
Revenues of the Treasury segment primarily consist of fees and gains or losses from trading operations and interest
income on the investment portfolio. The principal expenses of the segment consist of interest expense on funds
borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct
overheads and allocated expenses.
Revenues of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking segment consist of interest and fees earned on loans given to customers
falling under this segment and fees arising from transaction services and merchant banking activities such as syndication
and debenture trusteeship. Revenues of the Retail Banking segment are derived from interest earned on loans classified
under this segment, fees for banking and advisory services, ATM interchange fees and cards products. Expenses of the
Corporate/Wholesale Banking and Retail Banking segments primarily comprise interest expense on deposits and funds
borrowed from other internal segments, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating the branch network and
other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses.
Segment income includes earnings from external customers and from funds transferred to the other segments. Segment
result includes revenue as reduced by interest expense and operating expenses and provisions, if any, for that segment.
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Inter segment interest income and interest expense
represent the transfer price received from and paid to the Central Funding Unit (CFU) respectively. For this purpose,
the funds transfer pricing mechanism presently followed by the Bank, which is based on historical matched maturity
and internal benchmarks, has been used by the Bank and relied upon by the Statutory Auditors. Operating expenses
other than those directly attributable to segments are allocated to the segments based on an activity-based costing
methodology. All activities in the Bank are segregated segment-wise and allocated to the respective segment.
412 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
413
:woleb
tuo
tes
era
stluser
latnemgeS
)serorc
ni
`(
5202
,hcraM
13
gniknaB
liateR
rehtO
/etaroproC
latoT
detacollanU
gniknaB
liateR
latoT
liateR
rehtO
latigiD
elaselohW
yrusaerT
ssenisuB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
ssenisuB
ssenisuB
euneveR
tnemgeS
40.776,22,1
27.863
-
33.447,36
62.892,84
70.644,51
55.544,33
44.811,52
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
emocni
tseretni
ssorG
60.752,52
-
15.127,4
55.003,21
72.516,4
82.586,7
88.686,4
21.845,3
emocni
rehtO
01.439,74,1
27.863
15.127,4
88.440,67
35.319,25
53.131,32
34.231,83
65.666,82
tnuoccA
ssoL
dna
tfiorP
rep
sa emocni
latoT
12.775,47
-
-
14.388,46
04.496,35
10.981,11
19.744,8
98.542,1
emocni
tseretni
tnemges
retni
)ssel(/ddA
13.115,22,2
27.863
15.127,4
92.829,04,1
39.706,60,1
63.023,43
43.085,64
54.219,92
eunever
tnemges
latoT
22.923,86
-
-
12.725,84
93.113,93
28.512,9
59.037,1
60.170,81
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
esnepxe
tseretnI
:sseL
12.775,47
-
-
89.141,14
61.779,33
28.461,7
08.660,82
34.863,5
esnepxe
tseretni
tnemges
retnI
:sseL
59.994,73
-
53.852
47.673,13
16.522,12
31.151,01
59.183,5
19.284
sesnepxe
gntiarepO
:sseL
39.401,24
27.863
61.364,4
63.288,91
77.390,21
95.887,7
46.004,11
50.099,5
tfiorp
gnitarepO
53.857,7
)66.82(
20.0
01.339,9
16.243,4
94.095,5
)34.369(
)86.281,1(
1srehto/stessa
gnimrofrep-non
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
85.643,43
83.793
41.364,4
62.949,9
61.157,7
01.891,2
70.463,21
37.271,7
tluser
tnemgeS
01.379,7
xat
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
-
ssol/tfiorp
yranidroartxE
84.373,62
tfiorP
teN
88.929,90,61
89.037,6
47.677
26.243,836
60.416,015
65.827,721
90.563,524
54.417,835
stessa
tnemgeS
49.213,13,41
85.659,7
94.45
13.520,929
94.058,457
28.471,471
37.149,232
38.433,162
setiilibail
tnemgeS
49.616,87,1
)06.522,1(
52.227
)96.286,09,2(
)34.632,44,2(
)62.644,64(
63.324,29,1
26.973,77,2
stessa
teN
13.964,2
-
09.64
40.229,1
60.364,1
99.854
94.584
88.41
raey
eht
rof
erutidnepxe
latipaC
41.996,1
-
72.23
65.223,1
27.600,1
38.513
70.433
42.01
raey
eht
rof
stessa
dexfi
no noitaicerpeD
noitaicerped
naht
rehto
smeti
hsac-non
lairetam
stneserper
.1
Financial statements
414 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
)serorc
ni
`(
4202
,hcraM
13
gniknaB
liateR
rehtO
/etaroproC
latoT
detacollanU
gniknaB
liateR
latoT
liateR
rehtO
latigiD
elaselohW
yrusaerT
ssenisuB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
ssenisuB
ssenisuB
euneveR
tnemgeS
36.863,901
-
10.57
53.451,65
42.095,44
11.465,11
30.598,03
42.442,22
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
emocni
tseretni
ssorG
69.144,22
-
90.905,3
76.774,11
45.154,4
31.620,7
77.104,4
34.350,3
emocni
rehtO
95.018,131
-
01.485,3
20.236,76
87.140,94
42.095,81
08.692,53
76.792,52
tnuoccA
ssoL
dna
tfiorP
rep
sa emocni
latoT
49.041,76
-
-
85.195,45
10.560,74
75.625,7
68.519,8
05.336,3
emocni
tseretni
tnemges
retni
)ssel(/ddA
35.159,89,1
-
01.485,3
06.322,22,1
97.601,69
18.611,62
66.212,44
71.139,82
eunever
tnemges
latoT
51.474,95
-
)47.73(
74.612,04
13.629,33
61.092,6
64.970,2
69.512,71
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
esnepxe
tseretnI
:sseL
49.041,76
-
-
39.054,63
56.599,03
82.554,5
23.575,52
96.411,5
esnepxe
tseretni
tnemges
retnI
:sseL
82.312,53
-
07.962
50.897,92
48.444,91
12.353,01
06.967,4
39.573
sesnepxe
gntiarepO
:sseL
61.321,73
-
41.253,3
51.857,51
99.937,11
61.810,4
82.887,11
95.422,6
tfiorp
gnitarepO
90.360,4
-
)18.0(
47.245,5
54.746,2
92.598,2
)03.474,1(
)45.4(
1srehto/stessa
gnimrofrep-non
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
70.060,33
-
59.253,3
14.512,01
45.290,9
78.221,1
85.262,31
31.922,6
tluser
tnemgeS
46.891,8
xat
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
-
ssol/tfiorp
yranidroartxE
34.168,42
tfiorP
teN
06.802,77,41
01.460,6
73.160,1
49.165,995
77.244,294
71.911,701
92.489,583
09.635,484
stessa
tnemgeS
06.379,62,31
13.222,6
62.26
13.529,238
78.500,807
44.919,421
64.662,622
62.794,162
setiilibail
tnemgeS
00.532,05,1
)12.851(
11.999
)73.363,332(
)01.365,512(
)72.008,71(
38.717,95,1
46.930,322
stessa
teN
76.881,2
)96.61(
03.14
50.107,1
72.173,1
77.923
95.744
44.51
raey
eht
rof
erutidnepxe
latipaC
57.333,1
)96.61(
03.52
36.140,1
91.248
44.991
80.472
54.9
raey
eht
rof
stessa
dexfi
no noitaicerpeD
notiaicerped
naht
rehto
smeti
hsac-non
lairetam
stneserper
.1
Standalone financial statements
Geographic Segments
(` in crores)
Domestic International Total
31 March, 31 March, 31 March, 31 March, 31 March, 31 March,
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
Revenue 144,612.90 128,741.80 3,321.20 3,068.79 147,934.10 131,810.59
Assets 1,553,397.93 1,425,665.61 56,531.95 51,542.99 1,609,929.88 1,477,208.60
Capital Expenditure for the year 2,462.82 2,188.18 6.49 0.49 2,469.31 2,188.67
Depreciation on fixed assets for 1,697.78 1,332.10 1.36 1.65 1,699.14 1,333.75
the year
2.5 Related party disclosure
The related parties of the Bank are broadly classified as:
a) Promoters
The Bank has identified the following entities as its Promoters:
• Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI) (upto 17 July, 2023)
• Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)
b) Key Management Personnel
• Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry (MD & CEO)
• Mr. Rajiv Anand (Deputy Managing Director)
• Mr. Subrat Mohanty (Executive Director) (with effect from 17 August, 2023)
• Mr. Munish Sharda (Executive Director) (with effect from 27 February, 2024)
c) Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Ms. Preeti Chaudhry, Mr. Anagh Chaudhry, Mr. Aruj Chaudhry, Mr. Aryan Chaudhry, Ms. Rajul Parekh, Ms. Chhavi Kharb,
Mr. Ashok Kharb, Mr. Om Singh Chaudhry, Ms. Kusum Chaudhry, Ms. Gitanjali Anand, Ms. Tara Anand, Ms. Nandita
Anand, Mr. P.L. Narain, Mr. P. Srinivas, Ms. Ratna Rao Shekar, Ms. Charu Narain, Ms. K Ramalakshmi, Ms. Smitha
Mohanty, Mr. Agastya Mohanty, Mr. Rajat Mohanty, Mr. Neelima Mohanty, Mr. Narasingh Mohanty, Ms. Gitashree
Mohanty, Ms. Rima Sharda, Ms. Tanya Sharda, Ms. Shashi Sharda, Mr. Rakesh Sharda, Ms. Monica Sharda.
d) Subsidiary Companies
• Axis Capital Limited
• Axis Trustee Services Limited
• Axis Asset Management Company Limited
• Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
• Axis UK Limited (formerly Axis Bank UK Limited)
• Axis Finance Limited
• Axis Securities Limited
• A.Treds Limited
• Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited
• Freecharge Business and Technology Services Limited (with effect from 6 May, 2024)
415
Financial statements
e) Step down subsidiary companies
• Axis Capital USA LLC
• Axis Pension Fund Management Limited
f) Associate
• Axis Max Life Insurance Company Limited (formerly Max Life Insurance Company Limited)
Based on RBI guidelines, details of transactions with Promoter (Life Insurance Corporation of India) and Associate (Axis
Max Life Insurance Company Limited) are not disclosed since there is only one entity/party in the aforesaid categories.
The details of transactions of the Bank with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Key Relatives of Key
Step down
Items/Related Party Management Management Subsidiaries Total
Subsidiaries
Personnel Personnel#
Dividend paid 0.06 -* - - 0.06
Dividend received - - 24.58 - 24.58
Interest paid 0.38 0.76 64.45 0.03 65.62
Interest received 0.01 -* 38.48 - 38.49
Investment of the Bank - - 888.56 - 888.56
Repayment of Share Capital by related party - - 329.28 - 329.28
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party - - 375.00 - 375.00
Investment of related party in the Bank 53.29 - - - 53.29
Sale of investments - - 554.39 - 554.39
Management contracts - - 8.20 0.39 8.59
Remuneration paid 27.71 - - - 27.71
Contribution to employee benefit fund - - - - -
Swaps/Forward contracts - - 3.24 - 3.24
Advance granted (net) - 0.07 123.71 - 123.78
Advance repaid 0.77 - 0.06 - 0.83
Non-funded commitments (reduction) - - 0.05 - 0.05
Purchase of loans - - 25.24 - 25.24
Receiving of services - - 186.09 0.05 186.14
Rendering of services -* -* 202.27 0.42 202.69
Sale/Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related 0.14 -* - - 0.14
party
Royalty Received - - 11.82 0.01 11.83
Other reimbursements from related party - - 65.75 1.46 67.21
Other reimbursements to related party - - 5.53 - 5.53
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Key Relatives of Key
Step down
Items/Related Party Management Management Subsidiaries Total
Subsidiaries
Personnel Personnel#
Deposits with the Bank 8.81 14.43 2,031.06 0.78 2,055.08
Placement of deposits - - - - -
Advances 0.19 0.15 441.50 - 441.84
Investment of the Bank - - 3,807.53 7.22 3,814.75
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party - - 495.00 - 495.00
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.12 -* - - 0.12
Non-funded commitments - - 0.25 - 0.25
Other receivables (net) - - 27.16 0.07 27.23
Other payables (net) - - 73.91 - 73.91
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
416 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank during the year ended
31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Relatives
Key
of Key Step down
Items/Related Party Management Subsidiaries Total
Management Subsidiaries
Personnel
Personnel
Deposits with the Bank 22.83 14.77 2,547.57 7.50 2,592.67
Placement of deposits - - - - -
Advances 1.01 0.23 914.73 - 915.97
Investment of the Bank - - 3,816.60 7.22 3,823.82
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.14 -* - - 0.14
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party - - 495.00 - 495.00
Non-funded commitments - - 0.30 - 0.30
Other receivables (net) - - 27.16 0.07 27.23
Other payables (net) - - 135.68 0.03 135.71
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The details of transactions of the Bank with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Key Relatives of Key
Step down
Items/Related Party Promoters Management Management Subsidiaries Total
Subsidiaries
Personnel Personnel#
Dividend paid 24.49 0.05 -* - - 24.54
Dividend received - - - 41.38 - 41.38
Interest paid 399.71 0.23 0.47 30.39 0.50 431.30
Interest received -* 0.04 -* 75.51 - 75.55
Investment of the Bank - - - 300.87 - 300.87
Repayment of Share Capital by related party - - - - - -
Investment in non-equity instruments of - - - 466.48 - 466.48
related party
Investment of related party in the Bank - 20.39 - - - 20.39
Sale of investments - - - 225.88 - 225.88
Management contracts - - - 8.84 0.34 9.18
Remuneration paid - 17.77 - - - 17.77
Contribution to employee benefit fund 15.95 - - - - 15.95
Swaps/Forward contracts - - - - - -
Advance granted (net) - - - 0.03 - 0.03
Advance repaid - 0.42 - 392.93 - 393.35
Non-funded commitments (reduction) - - - - - -
Purchase of loans - - - 50.04 - 50.04
Receiving of services 92.63 - - 346.80 0.05 439.48
Rendering of services 89.83 -* -* 89.49 0.55 179.87
Sale/Purchase of foreign exchange currency - 0.22 - - - 0.22
to/from related party
Royalty Received - - - 8.94 -* 8.95
Other reimbursements from related party - - - 63.21 1.14 64.35
Other reimbursements to related party 1.14 - - 4.49 0.51 6.14
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
417
Financial statements
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank as on 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Key Relatives of Key
Step down
Items/Related Party Management Management Subsidiaries Total
Subsidiaries
Personnel Personnel#
Deposits with the Bank 7.63 8.63 1,540.48 0.07 1,556.81
Placement of deposits - - - - -
Advances 0.98 0.06 317.86 - 318.90
Investment of the Bank - - 3,248.25 7.22 3,255.47
Investment in non-equity instruments of related - - 120.00 - 120.00
party
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.14 -* - - 0.14
Non-funded commitments - - 0.30 - 0.30
Other receivables (net) - - 16.55 0.05 16.60
Other payables (net) - - 76.97 0.03 77.00
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank during the year ended
31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Key Relatives of Key
Step down
Items/Related Party Management Management Subsidiaries Total
Subsidiaries
Personnel Personnel
Deposits with the Bank 14.09 9.12 3,230.22 23.96 3,277.39
Placement of deposits - - - - -
Advances 1.34 0.07 1,115.34 - 1,116.75
Investment of the Bank - - 3,248.25 7.22 3,255.47
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.14 -* - - 0.14
Investment in non-equity instruments of related - - 425.00 - 425.00
party
Non-funded commitments - - 0.30 - 0.30
Other receivables (net) - - 16.55 0.21 16.76
Other payables (net) - - 103.13 0.53 103.66
* Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The transactions with Promoters and Key Management Personnel excluding those under management contracts are in
the nature of the banker-customer relationship.
Details of transactions with Axis Mutual Fund, the fund floated by Axis Asset Management Company Ltd., the Bank’s
subsidiary has not been disclosed since the entity does not qualify as Related Party as defined under the Accounting
Standard 18, Related Party Disclosure, as notified under Section 2(2) and Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and
as per RBI guidelines.
418 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31
March, 2024 are given below. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a significant related party transaction
wherever it exceeds 10% of the aggregate value of all related party transactions in that category:
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Dividend received
Axis UK Limited 10.33 27.13
Axis Trustee Services Limited 14.25 14.25
Dividend paid
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.06 0.05
Interest paid
Axis Capital limited 8.64 8.42
Axis Securities Limited 40.68 8.66
Interest received
Axis Finance Limited 33.70 66.93
Axis Securities Limited 4.72 8.47
Investment in Subsidiaries
Axis Securities Limited 250.00 -
Axis Finance Limited 598.56 300.87
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party
Axis Finance Limited 375.00 466.48
Repayment of Share Capital by related party
Axis UK Limited 329.28 -
Investment of related party in the Bank
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 35.09 9.77
Mr. Rajiv Anand 13.97 10.62
Sale of investments
Axis Securities Limited 554.39 225.88
Management contracts
A.Treds Limited 3.28 4.00
Axis Capital Limited 2.33 2.13
Axis Trustee Services Limited 2.25 2.00
Axis Asset Management Company Limited 0.17 0.72
Remuneration paid
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 9.80 9.10
Mr. Rajiv Anand 6.84 6.07
Mr. Subrat Mohanty 5.63 2.29
419
Financial statements
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Mr. Munish Sharda 5.44 0.31
Swaps/Forward contracts
Axis UK Limited 3.24 -
Advance granted (net)
Axis Finance Limited 123.71 -
Axis Securities Limited - 0.03
Advance repaid
Axis Finance Limited - 391.91
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.77 0.42
Non-funded commitments (reduction)
Axis Asset Management Company Limited 0.05 -
Purchase of loans
Axis UK Limited 25.24 50.04
Receiving of services
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited 183.76 343.51
Axis Securities Limited 0.03 0.02
Rendering of services
Axis Securities Limited 64.84 24.49
Axis Asset Management Company Limited 28.78 26.38
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited 87.94 23.69
Sale/Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related party
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 0.04 0.10
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.03 0.09
Mr. Subrat Mohanty 0.03 0.02
Mr. Munish Sharda 0.04 0.01
Royalty received
Axis Asset Management Company Limited 2.17 1.89
Axis Capital Limited 1.06 0.79
Axis Finance Limited 6.15 4.60
Axis Securities Limited 2.23 1.59
Other reimbursements from related party
Axis Securities Limited 12.06 7.27
Axis Capital Limited 6.66 3.22
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited 2.26 3.17
420 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Axis Asset Management Company Limited 30.06 31.87
Axis Finance Limited 8.45 14.35
Other reimbursements to related party
Axis Capital Limited 5.28 4.09
Axis UK Limited - 0.16
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited 0.02 0.15
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
2.6 Leases
Disclosure in respect of assets taken on operating lease
This comprises of branches, office premises/ATMs, cash deposit machines, currency chests, staff quarters, office
and IT equipments.
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Future lease rentals payable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year 1,311.87 1,206.80
- Later than one year and not later than five years 4,200.71 3,774.25
- Later than five years 4,907.75 4,004.41
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 1,741.94 1,503.78
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable 0.16 0.50
subleases
Sub-lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 0.64 0.89
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.
The terms of renewal/purchase options and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements.
There are generally no undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
Disclosure in respect of assets given on operating lease
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Gross carrying amount of premises at the end of the year 209.60 209.60
Accumulated depreciation at the end of the year 32.41 28.92
Total depreciation charged to profit and loss account for the year 3.49 3.49
Future lease rentals receivable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year 28.66 28.66
- Later than one year and not later than five years 81.14 92.56
- Later than five years 34.17 51.41
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.
421
Financial statements
2.7 Movement in fixed assets capitalised as application software and intangibles (included in other fixed assets)
• Movement of fixed assets capitalized as application software
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year 3,995.01 3,304.54
Additions during the year* 1,118.13 713.88
Deductions during the year (124.02) (23.41)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March (3,214.37) (2,671.59)
Closing balance as at 31 March 1,774.75 1,323.42
Depreciation charge for the year 659.47 509.52
*includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation for assets denominated in foreign currency
• Movement of fixed assets capitalized as intangibles and goodwill
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year 11,932.39 11,949.08
Additions during the year - -
Deductions during the year - (16.69)
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March 11,932.39 11,932.39
Closing balance as at 31 March - -
Amortisation charge for the year - (16.69)
2.8 The major components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities arising out of timing differences are as under:
(` in crores)
As at 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Deferred tax assets on account of provisions for loan losses 3,520.60 3,882.96
Deferred tax assets on account of provision for employee benefits 136.06 63.31
Deferred tax assets on Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (FCTR) 189.90 148.95
Deferred tax assets on other items 1,882.51 1,901.39
Deferred tax assets 5,729.07 5,996.61
Deferred tax liabilities on account of depreciation on fixed assets 83.20 74.58
Deferred tax liability on creation of Special Reserve under Income Tax Act 863.88 606.92
[Refer note 18 (1.1) (b) (iv)]
Deferred tax liability on transition gain on MTM of Investments 115.62 -
Deferred tax liabilities on interest on income tax refund 90.97 -
Deferred tax liabilities on account of other items 134.39 2.81
Deferred tax liabilities 1,288.06 684.31
Net Deferred tax assets 4,441.01 5,312.30
2.9 Employee Benefits
Provident Fund
The rules of the Bank’s Provident Fund administered by a Trust require that if the Board of Trustees are unable to
pay interest at the rate declared for Employees’ Provident Fund by the Government under para 60 of the Employees’
Provident Fund Scheme, 1952 for the reason that the return on investment is less or for any other reason, then the
deficiency shall be made good by the Bank.
Based on an actuarial valuation conducted by the independent actuary, there is no deficiency in the Trust observed as
at the Balance Sheet date.
422 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Provident Fund benefit plan (including staff
deputed at subsidiaries).
Profit and Loss Account
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost* 288.99 251.33
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation 324.38 297.90
Expected Return on Plan Assets (385.65) (344.84)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year 4.20 4.16
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition - -
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard – 15 57.07 42.78
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(I)] 288.99 251.33
Actual Return on Plan Assets 453.51 381.61
* includes contribution of `0.32 crores towards staff deputed at subsidiaries (previous year `0.28 crores)
Balance Sheet
Details of provision for provident fund
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Fair Value of Plan Assets 5,178.59 4,519.51
Present Value of Funded Obligations (5,004.56) (4,402.55)
Net asset 174.03 116.96
Amount not recognized as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard -15) (174.03) (116.96)
Net Asset/(Liability) - -
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities - -
Assets - -
Net Asset/(Liability) - -
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation 4,402.55 3,933.75
Current Service Cost 288.99 251.33
Interest Cost 324.38 297.90
Actuarial Losses/(Gains) 72.06 40.93
Employees Contribution 479.87 442.48
Liability transferred from/to other companies (24.13) (118.31)
Benefits Paid (539.16) (445.53)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation 5,004.56 4,402.55
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Change in the Fair Value of Assets
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets 4,519.51 4,007.93
423
Financial statements
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Expected Return on Plan Assets 385.65 344.84
Actuarial Gains/(Losses) 67.86 36.77
Employer contribution during the period 288.99 251.33
Employee contribution during the period 479.87 442.48
Assets transferred from/to other companies (24.13) (118.31)
Benefits Paid (539.16) (445.53)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets 5,178.59 4,519.51
Experience adjustments
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024 31 March, 2023 31 March, 2022 31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations 5,004.56 4,402.55 3,933.75 3,404.21 2,861.59
Plan Assets 5,178.59 4,519.51 4,007.93 3,538.64 2,861.59
Surplus/(Deficit) 174.03 116.96 74.18 134.43 -
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities 38.22 19.59 17.24 169.83 43.51
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets 67.86 36.77 (106.74) 270.73 (12.88)
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Government securities 53% 51%
Other debt instruments 11% 11%
Equity shares 13% 11%
Others 23% 27%
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Discount rate for the term of the obligation 6.80% 7.20%
Average historic yield on the investment portfolio 8.19% 8.34%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment portfolio 6.80% 7.20%
Expected investment return 8.19% 8.34%
Guaranteed rate of return 8.25% 8.25%
The contribution to the employee’s provident fund (including Employee Pension Scheme) amounted to `421.12 crores
for the year (previous year `377.52 crores) .
Superannuation
The Bank contributed `15.04 crores (previous year `15.95 crores) to the superannuation plan for the year.
The Bank has also accrued `12.93 crores (previous year `16.09 crores) for the eligible employees who had moved to
the Bank as part of the Citibank India consumer business acquisition as they are entitled to receive a lumpsum corpus
amount under a separate Superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of 10 years as a defined contribution plan.
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
During the year, the Bank contributed `20.67 crores (previous year `15.50 crores) to the NPS for employees who have
opted for the scheme.
Gratuity
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Gratuity benefit plan.
424 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Profit and Loss Account
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost 111.00 87.80
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation 63.22 53.62
Expected Return on Plan Assets (50.19) (47.05)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year 7.36 75.61
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition - -
Past Service Cost - -
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(I)] 131.39 169.98
Actual Return on Plan Assets 64.24 44.60
Balance Sheet
Details of provision for gratuity
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Fair Value of Plan Assets 914.54 726.76
Present Value of Funded Obligations (947.96) (816.79)
Unrecognised past service cost - -
Net Asset/ (Liability) (33.42) (90.03)
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities 33.42 90.03
Assets - -
Net Asset/(Liability) (included under Schedule 11 Other Assets /Schedule 5 – (33.42) (90.03)
Other Liabilities)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation 816.79 677.86
Current Service Cost 111.00 87.80
Interest Cost 63.22 53.62
Actuarial Losses/(Gains) 21.42 73.16
Liabilities assumed on acquisition - -
Benefits Paid (64.47) (75.65)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation 947.96 816.79
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Change in the Fair Value of Assets
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets 726.76 678.09
Expected Return on Plan Assets 50.19 47.05
Actuarial Gains/(Losses) 14.06 (2.46)
Contributions by Employer 188.00 79.73
Assets acquired on acquisition - -
Benefits Paid (64.47) (75.65)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets 914.54 726.76
425
Financial statements
Experience adjustments
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024 31 March, 2023 31 March, 2022 31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations 947.96 816.79 677.86 547.55 516.43
Plan Assets 914.54 726.76 678.09 559.68 508.22
Surplus/(Deficit) (33.42) (90.03) 0.23 12.13 (8.21)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities (5.36) 11.62 3.97 25.88 (9.28)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets 14.06 (2.46) (19.73) 9.45 6.38
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Government securities 53% 42%
Bonds, debentures and other fixed income instruments 38% 30%
Money market instruments 3% 2%
Equity shares 4% 3%
Balance in bank & others 2% 23%
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Discount Rate 6.80% p.a. 7.20% p.a.
Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets 7.00% p.a. 7.00% p.a.
Salary Escalation Rate 8.00% p.a. 8.00% p.a.
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years) 24.00% 24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years) 14.00% 14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) 8.00% 8.00%
The estimates of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation take account of inflation, seniority, promotion
and other relevant factors.
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
As the contribution expected to be paid to the plan during the annual period beginning after the balance sheet date is
based on various internal/external factors, a best estimate of the contribution is not determinable.
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
Resettlement allowance
Profit and Loss account
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank made a provision of `0.21 crores (previous year `Nil) towards liability
in respect of resettlement allowance based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
Balance Sheet
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Current liability 0.46 0.54
Non current liability 3.24 2.95
Net Liability as per actuarial valuation (included under Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities) 3.70 3.49
426 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Discount Rate 6.80% p.a. 7.20% p.a.
Salary Escalation Rate 8.00% p.a. 8.00% p.a.
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years) 24.00% 24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years) 14.00% 14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) 8.00% 8.00%
Provision towards probable impact on account of Code of Social Security 2020
The Bank on a prudent basis as per internal policy, based on an actuarial valuation holds a provision of `367.85 crores
as on 31 March 2025 (`287.60 crores as on 31 March, 2024) towards the gratuity liability on account of probable
impact due to Code of Social Security 2020. This is over and above the provisions made in normal course based on
extant rules and as reported in the above disclosure.
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
2.10 Provisions and contingencies
a) Movement in provision for frauds included under other liabilities is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 214.33 178.06
Additions during the year 56.88 54.72
Reductions on account of payments/reversals during the year (28.52) (18.45)
Closing balance at the end of the year 242.69 214.33
b) Other liabilities include provision for reward points made on actuarial basis, the movement of which is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year 997.08 711.54
Provision made during the year 1,024.16 495.53
Reductions during the year (842.79) (209.99)
Closing provision at the end of the year 1,178.45 997.08
c) Movement in provision for other contingencies is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year 7,429.46 3,784.70
Reclassification from provision on standard advances1 - 3,130.18
Additions during the year2 784.19 785.91
Reductions during the year (463.94) (271.33)
Closing provision at the end of the year3 7,749.71 7,429.46
1. During the previous year ended 31 March, 2024, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared that COVID-19 is no longer
a public health emergency of international concern, hence the provision of `5,012 crores carried by the Bank towards COVID-19
related risks is no longer required. Consequently, post approval of the Board of Directors, the Bank’s management prudently
elected to carry forward the aforesaid provision amount in its entirety, towards potential expected losses on certain standard
advances and / or exposures. The said amount was accordingly reclassified to provision for other contingencies and disclosed as
other liabilities under Schedule 5 of the Balance Sheet as on reporting date
2. Includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation
3. Closing provision includes provision for legal cases, additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan, provision
on AIF investments, provision for future expected losses and provision for other contingencies
427
Financial statements
2.11 Small and Micro Enterprises
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from 2 October, 2006,
certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. Following are the details
of delayed payments to MSMED registered vendors.
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Particulars
Principal Interest Principal Interest
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 11.94 0.01 12.05 0.00*
supplier
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, along with 3.07 0.02 4.37 0.03
the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the due date
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
payment (which have been paid but beyond the due date during the year) but
without adding the interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid N.A. 0.30 N.A. 0.29
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the N.A. 0.30 N.A. 0.29
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually
paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowed as a deductible
expenditure under Section 23
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The above is based on the information available with the Bank which has been relied upon by the auditors.
2.12 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
a) Amount required to be spent by the Bank on CSR during the year `425.92 crores (previous year `267.15 crores).
The details of CSR activities carried out in line with the CSR Policy of the Bank are given below:
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Amount required to be spent by the Bank during the year 425.92 267.15
Amount of expenditure incurred 286.92 217.42
Accrual towards unspent obligations (shortfall) in relation to 139.65 51.24
ongoing project
Nature of CSR activities - Lives & Livelihoods - Lives & Livelihoods
- Financial Literacy & Financial - Financial Literacy & Financial
Inclusion Inclusion
- Education - Education
- Environmental Sustainability - Environmental Sustainability
- Humanitarian & Relief - Humanitarian & Relief
- Health & Nutrition - Health & Nutrition
- Sports
b) Amount spent towards CSR during the year and recognized as expense in the profit and loss account on CSR
related activities is ₹426.57 crores (previous year `268.66 crores), which comprises of following-
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Yet to be paid in Yet to be paid in cash
In cash Total In cash Total
cash (i.e. provision)1 (i.e. provision)
Construction/acquisition of any asset - - - - - -
On purpose other than above 286.92 139.65 426.57 217.42 51.24 268.66
1. Transferred to the “Axis Bank Limited-Unspent CSR Account for FY 2024-25” to be utilized towards on-going project(s)/program(s)
in line with the provisions of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021.
428 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone financial statements
c) Movement in the provision towards unspent CSR amount
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 56.68 29.61
Additions during the year 139.65 51.24
Reduction during the year (55.46) (24.17)
Closing balance at the end of the year 140.87 56.68
2.13 Disclosure required as per Ministry of Corporate Affairs notification dated 24 March, 2021
During the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, other than the transactions undertaken in the normal course
of banking business and in accordance with extant regulatory guidelines and Bank’s internal policies, as applicable:
1. the Bank has not granted any advance/loans or investments or provided guarantee or security to any other
person(s) or entities with an understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, to further lend or invest on
behalf of the Bank or provide guarantee or security or the like to any other person identified by the Bank.
2. the Bank has not received any funds from any person(s) or entities with an understanding, whether recorded in
writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall further lend or invest or provide guarantee or security or the like in any
other person on behalf of and identified by such person(s)/entities.
2.14 Description of contingent liabilities
a) Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts
These represent claims filed against the Bank in the normal course of business relating to various legal cases
currently in progress. These also include demands raised by tax authorities and other statutory authorities which
are disputed by the Bank. The Bank holds provision of `896.77 crores as on 31 March, 2025 (previous year `369.37
crores) towards claims assessed as probable.
b) Liability for partly paid investments
This represents amounts remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
c) Liability on account of forward exchange contracts
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, including non-deliverable forward (NDF) contracts on its own
account and on OTC for customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency
at a future date at the contracted rate. A non-deliverable forward contract is a currency derivatives contract to
exchange cash flows between the contracted forward exchange rate and prevailing spot rates. The amount of
contingent liability represents the notional principal of respective forward exchange contracts. With respect to
the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting transactions in the
inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a large
value of gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
d) Liability on account of derivative contracts
The Bank enters into derivative contracts in the form of currency options/swaps, exchange traded currency options,
non-deliverable derivatives and interest rate/ currency futures on its own account and on OTC for customers.
Currency swaps are commitments between two counterparties to exchange streams of interest payments and/or
principal amounts in different currencies on specified dates over the duration of the swap at a pre-agreed exchange
rate. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. Interest rate
futures are standardised, exchange-traded contracts that represent a pledge to undertake a certain interest rate
transaction at a specified price, on a specified future date. Forward rate agreements (FRA) are financial contracts
between two counterparties, in which a buyer will pay or receive, on the settlement date, the difference between
a pre-determined fixed rate (FRA rate) and a reference interest rate, applied on a notional principal amount, for a
specified forward period. A foreign currency option is an agreement between two parties in which one grants to
the other the right to buy or sell a specified amount of currency at a specific price within a specified time period
or at a specified future time. An Exchange Traded Currency Option contract is a standardised foreign exchange
429
Financial statements
derivative contract, which gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to exchange money denominated in
one currency into another currency at a pre-agreed exchange rate on a specified date on the date of expiry. A non-
deliverable option contract is a currency derivatives contract that offers the right, but not the obligation to either
purchase or sell a currency against another currency and the contract is settled at the difference between the
contracted exchange rate and prevailing spot rate on the expiry date. Currency Futures contract is a standardised,
exchange-traded contract, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency at a certain date in the future, at a specified
price. The amount of contingent liability represents the notional principal of respective derivative contracts. With
respect to the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting transactions
in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a
large value of gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
e) Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
As a part of its banking activities, the Bank issues guarantees on behalf of its customers to enhance their credit
standing. Guarantees represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the
customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations. These are stated net of cash margin held with the
Bank as on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet.
f) Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
These include documentary credit issued by the Bank on behalf of its customers and bills drawn by the Bank’s
customers that are accepted or endorsed by the Bank. These are stated net of cash margin held with the Bank as
on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet.
g) Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
Other items represent outstanding amount of bills rediscounted by the Bank, estimated amount of contracts
remaining to be executed on capital account, notional principal on account of outstanding Tom/Spot foreign
exchange contracts, contracts for purchase of investments where settlement is due post balance sheet date, deed
of indemnity issued to liquidator of overseas subsidiary, contingent liability relating to undertakings issued towards
settlements under resolution plan in respect of non-performing assets, commitments towards underwriting and
investment in equity through bids under Initial Public Offering (IPO) of corporates, commitment for investment in
Associate entity and amount transferred to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF).
The Bank has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for
material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Bank has reviewed and recorded adequate provision as required under
any law/accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts)
in the books of account and disclosed the same under the relevant notes in the financial statements, where applicable.
3. Previous year figures have been regrouped and reclassified, where necessary to conform to current year’s presentation.
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
430 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To The Members of Axis Bank Limited
Report on the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1. We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited (‘the Holding Company’
or ‘the Bank’), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), and its
associates, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, and the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended on that date, and notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (‘the
Consolidated Financial Statements’).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the
consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information
of such subsidiaries, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve
Bank of India (‘RBI’), in the manner so required for banking companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules,
2021 (‘AS’) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the Consolidated State of Affairs of the Group
at 31 March 2025, and its Consolidated Profit, and its Consolidated Cash Flow for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of the
Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act, and the rules thereunder,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, along with the consideration of audit reports of the other auditors
referred to in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters.
We have determined the matters described below to be the Key Audit Matters:
Sr.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
No.
1. Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
As the Bank operates on Core Banking Solution across its In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we
branches and asset centres, the reliability and security of involved our specialists to understand the IT control environment, IT
Information technology (“IT”) systems plays a key role in the infrastructure and IT systems.
business operations. Since large volume of transactions are
processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that
applications process data as expected and that changes are
made in an appropriate manner.
431
Financial statements
Sr.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
No.
1. Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
We conducted an assessment and identified key IT systems that
are critical for accounting and financial reporting process and are
IT infrastructure is critical for smooth functioning and accurate
relevant for our audit and tested their internal controls. In particular:
accounting and financial reporting process.
• We obtained an understanding of the Bank’s IT control
Due to the pervasive nature and complexity of the IT
environment and key changes during the audit period that may
environment, we have ascertained key IT systems used in
be relevant to the audit;
financial reporting process and its related controls as a key audit
matter. • We tested the design, implementation and operating
effectiveness of the Bank’s General IT controls over the
key IT systems that are critical to accounting and financial
reporting. This included evaluation of Bank’s controls for user
access management, program change management, database
management, network operations, incident management and
other IT operations performed by the Bank during the period
of audit;
• We tested key automated and manual business cycle controls
and logic for system generated reports relevant to the audit;
and
• We also tested compensating controls and performed alternate
procedures to assess whether there were any unaddressed IT
risks that would materially impact the financial statements.
2. Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning on Advances (IRAC) as per the regulatory requirements.
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2025: INR 1,040,811 crore
Provision for Non-Performing Advances as at 31 March 2025: INR 10,272.49 crore
Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(5.3) and Schedule 18(1) Note 1.4 of Standalone Financial Statements
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular issued Our audit approach included testing the design, operating
by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on ‘Prudential Norms for effectiveness of internal controls and substantive audit procedures
Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning in respect of income recognition, asset classification and provisioning
pertaining to Advances’ (the ‘IRAC norms’) and amendments pertaining to advances. In particular:
thereto (“RBI guidelines”) which prescribes the norms for
• We have evaluated and understood the Bank’s internal control
identification and classification of Non-performing Assets
system in adhering to the RBI guidelines;
(‘NPAs’) and the minimum provision required for such assets.
• We have analysed and understood key IT systems/ applications
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine the
used and tested the design and implementation and operational
identification and provision required against NPAs considering
effectiveness of relevant controls in relation to income
various quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
recognition, asset classification, viz., standard, sub-standard,
As the identification of and provisioning against NPAs requires doubtful and loss with reference to RBI guidelines and
considerable level of management estimation, application of provisioning pertaining to advances; and
various regulatory requirements and its significance to the
• We test checked advances to examine the validity and accuracy
overall audit due to stakeholder and regulatory focus, we have
of the recorded amounts, provision for NPAs, and compliance
identified this as a key audit matter.
with IRAC norms.
• Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of disclosures as per
RBI guidelines relating to NPAs.
432 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
The auditors of Axis Securities Limited, vide their audit report dated 15 April 2025, have expressed an unmodified opinion on
the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the following Key Audit Matter was included in their audit
report.
Sr.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
No.
1. Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
The Company’s key financial accounting and reporting Our Audit Approach:
processes are highly dependent on the automated controls
With the assistance of our IT Specialists, we obtained an
over the Company’s information system, such that there exists
understanding of the Company’s IT Applications, databases and
a risk that gaps in the Information Technology General Control
operating systems relevant to the financial reporting and the control
environment could result in a misstatement in the financial
environment.
accounting and reporting records.
Our audit approach was combination of test of internal controls and
Accordingly, we have considered user access management,
substantive procedures on the areas of the IT infrastructure, which
segregation of duties and control over system change over
majorly focused access security (including controls over privileged
key financial accounting and reporting systems, as a key audit
access), program change controls, database management and
matter.
network operations.
In particular, our activity included the following:
General IT controls design, observation and operation:
• Understood the changes made in the IT environment during
the year and ascertained its effect on the financial statements
controls and accounts.
• Tested key controls operating over the information technology
in relation to financial accounting and reporting systems,
including system access and system change management,
program development and computer operations.
User access controls operation:
• Obtained management’s evaluation of the access rights granted
to applications relevant to financial accounting and reporting
systems and tested resolution of a sample of expectations.
• Further, we assessed the operating effectiveness of controls
over granting, removal and appropriateness of access rights.
Application controls:
• We tested the design and operating effectiveness of automated
controls critical to financial accounting and reporting.
• For any identified deficiencies, tested the design and operating
effectiveness of compensating controls and, where necessary,
extended the scope of our substantive audit procedures.
• Our tests also included testing of the compensating controls
or alternate procedures to assess whether there were any
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the Financial
Statements.
• Considered the reports for certain applications on test check
basis, as issued by the professional consultants with respect to
VAPT testing done on such applications.
• Considered the reports issued by the professional consultants
with respect to Information Systems (IS) Audit and IT
Infrastructure of the Company and of certain applications at
group level relevant for the Company.
433
Financial statements
The auditors of Axis Finance Limited, vide their audit report dated 17 April 2025, have expressed an unmodified opinion on the
financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the following Key Audit Matter was included in their audit report.
Sr.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
No.
1. Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
The Company’s key financial accounting and reporting Our Audit Approach:
processes are highly dependent on the automated controls
With the assistance of our IT Specialists, we obtained an understanding
over the Company’s information system, such that there exists
of the Company’s IT Applications, databases and operating systems
a risk that gaps in the Information Technology General Control
relevant to the financial reporting and the control environment.
environment could result in a misstatement in the financial
accounting and reporting records. Proper IT general and Our audit approach was combination of test of internal controls and
application controls are essential to ensure accurate, complete substantive procedures on the areas of the IT infrastructure, which
and consistent data processing for reliable financial reporting. majorly focused access security (including controls over privileged
Accordingly, we have considered user access management, access), program change controls, database management and
segregation of duties and control over system change over network operations.
key financial accounting and reporting systems, as a key audit
In particular, our activity included the following:
matter.
General IT controls design, observation and operation
• Understood the changes made in the IT environment during
the year and ascertained its effect on the financial statements
controls and accounts.
• Tested key controls operating over the information technology in
relation to financial accounting and reporting systems, including
system access and system change management, program
development and computer operations.
User access controls operation:
• Obtained management’s evaluation of the access rights granted
to applications relevant to financial accounting and reporting
systems and tested resolution of a sample of expectations.
• Further, we assessed the operating effectiveness of controls
over granting, removal and appropriateness of access rights.
Application controls:
• We tested the design and operating effectiveness of automated
controls critical to financial accounting and reporting.
• For any identified deficiencies, tested the design and operating
effectiveness of compensating controls and, where necessary,
extended the scope of our substantive audit procedures.
• Our tests also included testing of the compensating controls
or alternate procedures to assess whether there were any
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the Financial
Statements.
Other Information
5. The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The Other Information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our Auditors’
Report thereon. The Other Information is expected to be made available to us after the date of this Auditors’ Report.
6. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
7. In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated.
434 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
8. When we read the other information, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required
to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the
relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
9. The Bank’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these
Consolidated Financial Statements in term of the requirements of the Act, that give a true and fair view of the
Consolidated State of Affairs, Consolidated Profit and Consolidated Cash Flows of the Group in accordance with
the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards)
Rules, 2021, and other accounting principles generally accepted in India and provisions of section 29 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines issued by the RBI from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). The respective
Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are responsible for maintenance of
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding
of the assets of the Group of its associates and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection
of the appropriate accounting software for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations including those
related to retention of audit logs; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view
and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which have been used for the purpose of
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements by the Management and directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.
10. In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Management and the Board of Directors of the
companies included in the Group and of its associate are responsible for assessing the ability of each company to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the Management and the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
11. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are responsible for
overseeing the financial reporting process of the respective companies included in the Group and associate.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
12. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
13. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
13.1. Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
13.2. Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
13.3. Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Management.
435
Financial statements
13.4. Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its associates to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures
in the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events
or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to cease to continue as a going concern.
13.5. Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including
the disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
13.6. Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group and its associate to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of
such entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors. For
the other entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors,
such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out
by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
14. We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
15. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
16. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.
Other Matters
17. We did not audit the Financial Statements of nine subsidiaries and two stepdown subsidiaries, whose financial statements
reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments) of `53,118.53 crore as at 31 March 2025, total revenues (before
consolidation adjustments) of `8,503.40 crore, total net profit after tax (before consolidation adjustments) of `1,768.24
crore and net cash inflows (before consolidation adjustments) amounting to `359.39 crore for the year ended on that
date, as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements have been audited by other
auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial
Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our
report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the
reports of the other auditors. Further, of these subsidiaries, one subsidiary is located outside India whose financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in that country and
which have been audited by its auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in that country. The
Parent’s management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiary from generally accepted accounting
principles applicable in that country to generally accepted accounting principles applicable in India. Our audit report in
so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiary located outside India, is based on the report of other
auditor. According to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, the financial statements of this
subsidiary is not material to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
18. We did not audit the financial statements of one subsidiary, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before
consolidation adjustments) of `13.41 crore as at 31 March 2025, total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of
436 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
`12.53 crore, total net profit after tax (before consolidation adjustments) of `0.34 crore and net cash flows amounting
(before consolidation adjustments) to `411.60 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. These financial statements are unaudited and have been furnished to us by the Board of Directors
and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included
in respect of this subsidiary, and our report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid
subsidiary, is based solely on such unaudited financial statements. This subsidiary is located outside India, whose
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in its country.
The Parent’s management has converted the financial results of such subsidiary from generally accepted accounting
principles applicable in its country to generally accepted accounting principles applicable in India. According to the
information and explanations given to us by the management, the financial statements of this subsidiary is not material
to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
19. The Consolidated Financial Statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of `79.06 crore for the year
ended 31 March 2025, as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in respect of one associate based on
management’s best estimate in the absence of the financial information which has been relied upon by us. According
to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, the financial information of the associate is not
material to the group.
20. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the
other auditors and the financial statements certified by the Management.
21. Attention is drawn to the fact that the consolidated financial statements of the Bank for the year ended 31 March 2024
were audited by predecessor auditors whose report dated 24 April 2024 expressed an unmodified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
22. The Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit And Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with
the provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act.
23. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the reports of the other
auditors on separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries and associates, we report, to
the extent applicable, that:
23.1. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief
were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
23.2. In our opinion, proper books of accounts as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated
Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports
of the other auditors except for the matters stated in paragraph 24.8 below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
23.3. The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the
purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
23.4. In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified
under Section 133 of the Act read with the relevant rules thereunder to the extent they are not inconsistent with
the accounting policies prescribed by the RBI.
23.5. On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as on 31 March 2025 taken on
record by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies
incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies incorporated in India are disqualified as on 31
March 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
437
Financial statements
23.6. The observation relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith as stated in the
paragraph 23.2 above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and paragraph 24.8 below on reporting
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
23.7. With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of
the Bank, its subsidiary companies incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to
our separate report in ‘Annexure A’.
23.8. In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us and based on reports of the statutory
auditors of such subsidiary companies incorporated in India which were not audited by us, except in case of an
associate which is unaudited, the remuneration paid during the current year by the subsidiaries incorporated in
India to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of and the limits laid down under section 197 of the Act.
The remuneration paid to any director by the subsidiary companies incorporated in India is not in excess of limit
laid down under section 197 of the Act. Further, since the Bank is a banking company, as defined under Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, the reporting under section 197(16) in relation to whether the remuneration paid by the
Bank is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act and whether any excess remuneration has been
paid in accordance with the aforesaid section, is not applicable.
24. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the
explanations given to us and based on the consideration of audit reports of other auditors on separate financial statements
of such subsidiaries as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph:
24.1. The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2025 on
the consolidated financial position of the Group, its associate – Refer Schedule 12 of the consolidated
financial statements.
24.2. Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements, as required under the applicable law or
accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative
contracts – Refer Schedule 5 and 12 read with Note No. 1.18 of Schedule 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group, its associate and the Group’s share of net profit in
respect of its associate.
24.3. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India during the year
ended 31 March 2025.
24.4. The respective managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries in India whose financial statements have been
audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries respectively, to best of
their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank or any of such subsidiaries (‘Ultimate
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
24.5. The respective managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose
financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of such
subsidiaries respectively, to best of their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been received by the Bank
or any of such subsidiaries from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank or any of such subsidiaries shall,
whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
438 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
24.6. Based on such audit procedures, that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
performed by us and those performed by auditors of the subsidiaries incorporated in India whose financial
statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice that has caused us
or other auditors to believe that the representation under para 24.4 and 24.5 contain any material misstatement.
24.7. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared and / or paid
during the year by the Bank is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
24.8. Based on our examination, which included test checks, and that performed by the respective auditors of the
subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under
the Act, except in case of one subsidiary where the component auditor has reported that the audit trail logs
in Oracle with respect to any modification in the master related to banking details of vendor’s were enabled
from 16 April 2024 and in case of an associate which is unaudited, the Bank and its subsidiaries have used an
accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log)
facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software.
Further, during the course of our audit, we and respective auditors of the above referred subsidiaries did not
come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved by the Bank and above referred subsidiaries as per the statutory
requirements for record retention except in case of 2 subsidiaries where the respective component auditors have
reported that the audit trail was not maintained for previous year and/or part of current year and hence not retained
in respect of three accounting software of which one has been decommissioned effective 30 September 2023.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672 (formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577 ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDV9966 UDIN: 25117348BMOBBW6965
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025 Date: 24 April 2025
439
Financial statements
Annexure ‘A’ to the Independent Auditors’ report on the Consolidated
Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2025
(Referred to in paragraph ’23.7’ under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
Opinion
1. In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited as of and for the year ended
31 March 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
of Axis Bank Limited (‘Bank’) and its subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
2. In our opinion, the Bank, and its subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material
respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements and such
internal financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2025, based on the internal controls over financial
reporting criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of such internal controls
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India (‘the Guidance Note’).
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
3. The respective Board of Directors of the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India,
are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements based on the internal controls over financial reporting criteria established by the respective companies
considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies,
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s responsibility
4. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank, its subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India, internal
financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing (‘SA’), prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act,
to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Those SAs and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated
Financial Statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls
with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial
controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls based on the assessed risk. The
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of
their reports referred to in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
440 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Meaning of Internal Financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls
with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
8. Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference
to the Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with
reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matters
9. Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal
financial controls system with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to Nine subsidiaries
and One Stepdown Subsidiary, which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the
auditors of such subsidiaries incorporated in India.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672 (formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577 ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDV9966 UDIN: 25117348BMOBBW6965
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025 Date: 24 April 2025
441
Financial statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Schedule As on As on
No. 31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Capital and Liabilities
Capital 1 619.47 617.31
Employees' Stock Options Outstanding 1A 1,182.66 894.49
Reserves & Surplus 2 185,433.36 155,511.72
Minority Interest 2A 635.13 499.44
Deposits 3 1,170,920.89 1,067,102.40
Borrowings 4 220,686.75 228,199.55
Other Liabilities and Provisions 5 77,484.35 65,413.62
Total Capital and Liabilities 1,656,962.61 1,518,238.53
Assets
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 73,638.44 86,077.49
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice 7 29,060.26 30,415.69
Investments 8 396,685.07 332,353.74
Advances 9 1,081,229.47 999,333.48
Fixed Assets 10 6,492.08 5,837.56
Other Assets 11 69,568.05 63,931.33
Goodwill on Consolidation 289.24 289.24
Total Assets 1,656,962.61 1,518,238.53
Contingent Liabilities 12 2,878,200.52 1,912,125.37
Bills for Collection 76,931.20 73,543.06
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts 17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
442 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Schedule Year ended Year ended
No. 31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I Income
Interest Earned 13 127,374.09 112,759.05
Other Income 14 28,542.77 25,230.31
Total Income 155,916.86 137,989.36
II Expenditure
Interest Expended 15 71,036.31 61,390.74
Operating Expenses 16 39,992.04 37,242.55
Provisions and Contingencies 18 (1.1) 16,776.77 12,932.53
Total Expenditure 127,805.12 111,565.82
III Net Profit for the Year 28,111.74 26,423.54
Share of earnings/(loss) in Associate 79.06 68.71
Consolidated Net Profit for the Year Before Deducting Minority Interest 28,190.80 26,492.25
Minority interest (135.69) (106.05)
IV Consolidated Net Profit for the Year Attributable to Group 18.1 28,055.11 26,386.20
Brought forward consolidated profit/(loss) attributable to the Group 65,281.17 47,769.25
V Amount Available for Appropriation/Transfers 93,336.28 74,155.45
VI Appropriations/Transfers:
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 6,593.37 6,215.36
Transfer to Special Reserve 1,024.73 968.13
Transfer to Investment Reserve - 242.29
Transfer to General Reserve 2.16 2.47
Transfer to Capital Reserve 214.35 139.55
Transfer to Reserve Fund u/s 45 IC of RBI Act, 1934 130.50 119.50
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve 248.00 879.00
Dividend Paid During the Year 18 (1.6) 309.09 307.98
Balance carried over to Consolidated Balance sheet 84,814.08 65,281.17
Total 93,336.28 74,155.45
VII Earnings Per Equity Share (Face value `2/- per share) 18 (1.4)
Basic (in `) 90.72 85.62
Diluted (in `) 90.18 85.01
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts 17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
443
Financial statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Net profit before taxes 36,586.47 35,071.95
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation on fixed assets, intangibles and goodwill 1,766.97 1,388.46
Mark-to-Market (gain)/loss on investments (700.52) (431.32)
Amortisation of premium/discount on investments 651.60 894.18
Provision for Non Performing Assets (including bad debts)/restructured assets 11,643.69 6,533.43
Provision on standard assets and other contingencies 349.86 424.15
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net) 10.29 4.42
Employee stock options/units expense 430.54 519.57
(i) 50,738.90 44,404.84
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/Decrease in investments (13,441.73) (38,129.02)
(Increase)/Decrease in advances (93,762.98) (137,622.10)
Increase /(Decrease) in deposits 103,818.49 121,277.69
(Increase)/Decrease in other assets (5,449.90) 9,145.17
Increase/(Decrease) in other liabilities & provisions 10,628.91 2,599.86
(ii) 1,792.79 (42,728.40)
Direct taxes paid (iii) (8,148.01) (7,231.11)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii) (A) 44,383.68 (5,554.67)
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets (2,445.54) (2,385.41)
Purchase consideration for acquistion of Citibank India Consumer Business - (329.85)
(Increase)/Decrease in Held to Maturity investments (47,170.10) (6,381.97)
Increase in investment in Associate (1,612.00) -
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 12.51 9.07
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (B) (51,215.13) (9,088.16)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments - -
Repayment of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments (826.45) -
Increase/(Decrease) in borrowings (other than subordinated debt, Additional Tier I (6,686.35) 21,985.98
instruments (net))
Proceeds from issue of share capital 2.16 1.94
Proceeds from share premium (net of share issue expenses) 683.68 555.26
Payment of dividend (309.09) (307.98)
Increase in minority interest 135.69 106.05
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (C) (7,000.36) 22,341.25
444 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
(` in crores)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Effect of exchange fluctuation translation reserve (D) 37.33 86.83
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A)+(B)+(C)+(D) (13,794.48) 7,785.25
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 116,493.18 108,707.93
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 102,698.70 116,493.18
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement:
1. Cash and cash equivalents includes the following
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India (Refer Schedule 6) 73,638.44 86,077.49
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice (Refer Schedule 7) 29,060.26 30,415.69
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 102,698.70 116,493.18
2. Amount of Corporate Social Responsibility related expenses spent during the year in
cash `324.26 crores (previous year `247.71 crores)
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
445
Financial statements
Schedules forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
Schedule 1 - Capital
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
Authorised Capital
4,250,000,000 (Previous year - 4,250,000,000) Equity Shares of `2/- each 850.00 850.00
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Capital
3,097,369,066 (Previous year - 3,086,570,375) Equity Shares of `2/- each fully paid-up 619.47 617.31
Schedule 1A - Employees' Stock Options Outstanding
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Opening Balance 894.49 426.09
Additions during the year1 430.53 519.57
Deductions during the year2 (142.36) (51.17)
Closing Balance 1,182.66 894.49
1. Represents cost of employee stock options/units recognised during the year
2. Represents amount transferred to share premium on account of exercise of employee stock options/units and to General Reserve on lapses
of employee stock options
Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance 26,665.70 20,450.34
Additions during the year 6,593.37 6,215.36
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 33,259.07 26,665.70
II. Capital Reserve
Opening Balance 3,929.62 3,790.07
Additions during the year 214.35 139.55
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 4,143.97 3,929.62
III. Share Premium Account
Opening Balance 52,540.00 51,935.78
Additions during the year 818.10 604.22
Less: Share issue expenses (0.03) -
Closing Balance 53,358.07 52,540.00
IV. Reserve Fund u/s 45 IC of RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance 555.17 435.67
Additions during the year 130.50 119.50
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 685.67 555.17
446 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
V. Revenue and Other Reserves
(A) Special Reserve
Opening Balance 2,418.32 1,450.19
Additions during the year 1,024.73 968.13
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 3,443.05 2,418.32
(B) Investment Reserve Account
Opening balance 242.29 -
Additions during the year - 242.29
Deductions during the year (242.29) -
Closing Balance - 242.29
(C) General Reserve
Opening Balance 437.04 432.37
Additions during the year 1,470.28 4.67
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 1,907.32 437.04
(D) Foreign Currency Translation Reserve [Refer Schedule 17 (5.7)]
Opening Balance 781.41 694.58
Additions during the year 37.34 86.83
Deductions during the year -
Closing Balance 818.75 781.41
(E) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening Balance 2,661.00 1,782.00
Additions during the year 248.00 879.00
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 2,909.00 2,661.00
(F) Available for Sale (AFS) Reserve
Opening Balance - -
Additions during the year 110.39 -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance 110.39 -
(G) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening Balance - -
Additions during the year (16.01) -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing Balance (16.01) -
VI. Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward 84,814.08 65,281.17
Total 185,433.36 155,511.72
Schedule 2A - Minority Interest
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Minority Interest at the date on which the parent-subsidiary relationship came into existence 40.23 40.23
Subsequent increase 594.90 459.21
Closing Minority Interest 635.13 499.44
447
Financial statements
Schedule 3 - Deposits
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
A. I. Demand Deposits
(i) From banks 4,184.17 4,695.28
(ii) From others 161,593.70 151,659.07
II. Savings Bank Deposits 311,389.33 302,132.58
III. Term Deposits
(i) From banks 45,851.59 43,698.36
(ii) From others 647,902.10 564,917.11
Total (I, II and III)1 1,170,920.89 1,067,102.40
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 1,140,897.26 1,052,137.32
II. Deposits of branches/subsidiaries outside India 30,023.63 14,965.08
Total (I and II)1 1,170,920.89 1,067,102.40
1. Includes deposits under lien amounting to `101,109.57 crores (previous year `86,359.61 crores)
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Borrowings in India
(i) Reserve Bank of India - -
(ii) Other banks1 16,285.19 15,891.26
(iii) Other institutions & agencies2 168,384.40 176,230.70
II. Borrowings outside India3 36,017.16 36,077.59
Total (I and II) 220,686.75 228,199.55
Secured borrowings included in I & II above 28,805.17 22,953.85
1. B orrowings from other banks include Subordinated Debt of `129.10 crores (previous year `15.60 crores) in the nature of Non-Convertible
Debentures [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.2)(b)]
2. B orrowings from other institutions & agencies include Subordinated Debt of `25,068.86 crores (previous year `24,432.36 crores) in the
nature of Non-Convertible Debentures and Perpetual Debt amounting to `640.00 crores (previous year `490.00 crores)
[Also refer Schedule 18 (1.2)(b)]
3. Borrowings outside india include Additional Tier I Bonds in the nature of Perpetual Debt amounting to $600 million (`5,128.50 crores);
previous year $600 million (`5,004.30 crores) [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.2)(b)]
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Bills Payable 6,193.80 6,713.89
II. Inter-office adjustments (net) - -
III. Interest accrued 3,810.98 3,658.22
IV. General provision against standard assets 5,217.40 5,113.43
V. MTM loss on forex & derivative contracts 19,928.54 12,806.36
VI. Provision for tax (net) 1,077.99 -
VII. Deferred tax liabilities (net) 0.53 -
VIII. Others (including provisions) [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(C)] 41,255.11 37,121.72
Total 77,484.35 65,413.62
448 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 8,073.94 9,634.81
II. Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
(i) in Current Account 44,623.50 48,193.68
(ii) in Other Accounts (includes reverse repo under Liquidity Adjustment Facility) 20,941.00 28,249.00
Total (I and II) 73,638.44 86,077.49
Schedule 7 - Balances With Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. In India
(i) Balance with Banks
(a) in Current Accounts 102.82 721.23
(b) in Other Deposit Accounts 2,527.19 2,931.78
(ii) Money at Call and Short Notice
(a) With banks - 100.00
(b) With other institutions 5,024.02 6,149.77
Total (i and ii) 7,654.03 9,902.78
II. Outside India
(i) in Current Accounts 4,545.43 4,182.88
(ii) in Other Deposit Accounts 11,954.53 9,321.34
(iii) Money at Call & Short Notice 4,906.27 7,008.69
Total (i, ii and iii) 21,406.23 20,512.91
Grand Total (I+II) 29,060.26 30,415.69
Schedule 8 - Investments
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Investments in India in -
(i) Government Securities1 293,400.66 238,963.72
(ii) Other approved securities - -
(iii) Shares 2,745.67 1,317.01
(iv) Debentures and Bonds 73,723.01 74,702.09
(v) Associates2 2,623.51 932.45
(vi) Others 8,393.69 6,769.42
[include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds,
Venture Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts,
Pass Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP)]
Total Investments in India 380,886.54 322,684.69
II. Investments outside India in -
(i) Government Securities (including local authorities) 15,435.27 9,421.86
(ii) Associates - -
(iii) Others (include Equity Shares and Bonds) 363.26 247.19
Total Investments outside India 15,798.53 9,669.05
Grand Total (I+II) 396,685.07 332,353.74
III. Investments in India
(i) Gross value of investments 380,436.45 323,730.81
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation (includes provision for non-perfoming 450.09 (1,046.12)
investments)3
(iii) Net investments 380,886.54 322,684.69
449
Financial statements
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
IV. Investments outside India
(i) Gross Value of Investments 16,033.99 9,913.83
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation (includes provision for non-perfoming (235.46) (244.78)
investments)3
(iii) Net Investments 15,798.53 9,669.05
Grand Total (III+IV) 396,685.07 332,353.74
1. I ncludes securities of face value `1,70,046.36 crores (previous year `1,52,280.19 crores) pledged for availment of fund transfer facility,
clearing facility, repo contracts and margin requirements
2. Includes goodwill on acquisition of Associate amounting to `1,596.73 crores (previous year `368.54 crores)
3. Includes MTM gain/(loss) on investments
Schedule 9 - Advances
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted 16,818.24 16,438.20
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand1 327,319.22 278,456.50
(iii) Term loans 737,092.01 704,438.78
Total (i, ii and iii) 1,081,229.47 999,333.48
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets2 791,209.33 699,357.61
(ii) Covered by Bank/Government Guarantees3 2,028.63 4,413.20
(iii) Unsecured 287,991.51 295,562.67
Total (i, ii and iii) 1,081,229.47 999,333.48
C. I. Advances in India
(i) Priority Sector 384,558.93 369,070.11
(ii) Public Sector 12,080.58 17,132.94
(iii) Banks 15,744.40 15,646.12
(iv) Others 639,134.82 568,840.19
Total (i, ii, iii and iv) 1,051,518.73 970,689.36
II. Advances Outside India
(i) Due from Banks 337.63 241.87
(ii) Due from Others -
(a) Bills purchased and discounted 6,406.75 6,295.36
(b) Syndicated loans - -
(c) Others 22,966.36 22,106.89
Total (i and ii) 29,710.74 28,644.12
Grand Total [C.I.+C.II.] 1,081,229.47 999,333.48
1. Net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) `20,192.94 crores (previous year `19,999.61 crores), includes lending
under IBPC `1,350.00 crores (previous year Nil)
2. Includes advances against Book Debts
3. Includes advances against L/Cs issued by other banks
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Premises
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year 1,812.59 1,663.59
Additions during the year - 149.00
Deductions during the year - -
Depreciation to date (299.99) (275.29)
Net Block 1,512.60 1,537.30
450 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
IA. Premises Under Construction - -
II. Other fixed assets (including furniture & fixtures and intangibles)
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year 24,193.67 22,443.96
Additions on account of acquisition of Citibank India Consumer Business - (16.69)
Additions during the year1 2,591.78 2,128.34
Deductions during the year (708.16) (361.94)
Depreciation to date (21,395.58) (20,340.99)
Net Block 4,681.71 3,852.68
IIA. Leased Assets (Premises given on lease)
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year 209.60 209.60
Additions during the year including adjustments - -
Deductions during the year including provisions - -
Depreciation to date (32.41) (28.92)
Net Block 177.19 180.68
Grand Total (I,IA,II and IIA) 6,371.50 5,570.66
III. Capital-Work-in Progress (including Leased Assets) Net of Provisions 120.58 266.90
Grand Total (I,IA,II,IIA and III) 6,492.08 5,837.56
1. includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Inter-office adjustments (net) - -
II. Interest Accrued 14,326.54 11,712.69
III. Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net of provisions) 1,200.97 196.31
IV. Stationery and stamps 3.46 2.76
V. Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1 - -
VI. Deferred Tax assets (net) 4,615.16 5,434.97
VII. MTM gain on forex & derivative contracts 20,496.42 12,430.07
VIII. Others2 28,925.50 34,154.53
Total 69,568.05 63,931.33
1. Represents balance net of provision of `1,855.85 crores (previous year `1,855.85 crores) on Land held as non-banking asset
2. Includes Priority Sector Shortfall Deposits of `14,450.47 crores (previous year `21,557.10 crores)
Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
(` in crores)
As on As on
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts 1,766.98 2,594.92
II. Liability for partly paid investments 280.63 125.74
III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1 1,256,588.46 840,386.68
IV. Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts1 1,369,593.38 821,623.49
V. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) In India 121,698.90 106,812.19
(b) Outside India 19,490.11 21,330.35
VI. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 55,341.43 59,087.51
VII. Other items for which the Group is contingently liable 53,440.63 60,164.49
Total [Refer Schedule 18 (1.18)] 2,878,200.52 1,912,125.37
1. Represents notional amount
451
Financial statements
Schedules Forming Part of the Consolidated Profit & Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
(` in crores)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Interest/discount on advances/bills 101,582.06 90,314.02
II. Income on investments (including dividend) 23,057.01 20,082.39
III. Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds 1,243.23 923.74
IV. Others 1,491.79 1,438.90
Total 127,374.09 112,759.05
Schedule 14 - Other Income
(` in crores)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 23,787.78 21,023.88
II. Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1 (10.29) (4.42)
III. Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net) 2,164.88 1,936.22
IV. Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net) 1,344.70 1,438.12
V. Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net) 700.52 431.32
VI. Lease finance income (including management fee, overdue charges and interest on lease rent - -
receivables)
VII. Miscellaneous Income 555.18 405.19
Total 28,542.77 25,230.31
1. includes provision for diminution in value of fixed assets
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
(` in crores)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Interest on deposits 53,837.24 45,510.91
II. Interest on Reserve Bank of India/Inter-bank borrowings 2,055.96 2,280.22
III. Others 15,143.11 13,599.61
Total 71,036.31 61,390.74
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended Year ended
31-03-2025 31-03-2024
I. Payments to and provisions for employees 13,661.28 12,193.68
II. Rent, taxes and lighting 2,090.16 1,833.85
III. Printing and stationery 373.82 357.29
IV. Advertisement and publicity 175.40 167.22
V. Depreciation on Group's property
a) Other than Leased Assets 1,763.48 1,384.97
b) On Leased Assets 3.49 3.49
VI. Directors' fees, allowance and expenses 11.84 11.30
VII. Auditors' fees and expenses 7.42 9.05
VIII. Law charges 212.92 192.76
IX. Postage, telegrams, telephones etc. 467.50 447.75
X. Repairs and maintenance 2,329.69 1,939.23
XI. Insurance 1,794.96 1,610.56
XII. Other expenditure 17,100.08 17,091.40
Total 39,992.04 37,242.55
1. Includes commission paid to direct selling agents, charges paid to network partners, cashback expenses, fees paid for purchase of Priority
Sector Lending Certificates, professional fees, technology expenses, business promotion expenses and miscellaneous expenses
452 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
17. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
1. Principles of consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of Axis Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), its
Subsidiaries and Associate (together ‘the Group’). As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank has overseas branches at Singapore,
DIFC - Dubai and an Offshore Banking Unit at the International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), Gujarat International
Finance Tec-City (GIFT City), Gandhinagar, India.
The Bank consolidates its Subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Standard (‘AS’) 21, Consolidated Financial
Statements notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts)
Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 on a line-by-line basis by adding together the
like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions are
eliminated on consolidation.
Investment in entities where the Bank has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the equity
method of accounting as prescribed under Accounting Standard (AS) 23 “Accounting for investments in Associates in
Consolidated Financial Statements” and the pro-rata share of their profit/(loss) is included in the consolidated Profit
and Loss account.
2. Basis of preparation
a) The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and presented under the historical cost convention
on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India
(‘GAAP’), unless otherwise stated by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’), to comply with the statutory requirements
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, notifications, guidelines
and directives issued by the RBI from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the
Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting
Standards) Rules, 2021 to the extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in
India. Accounting policies applied have been consistent with the previous year except otherwise stated.
b) The consolidated financial statements present the accounts of the Bank including the following entities:
Country of Ownership
Name Relation
Incorporation Interest
Axis Capital Ltd. Subsidiary India 100.00%
Axis Trustee Services Ltd. Subsidiary India 100.00%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Ltd. Subsidiary India 75.00%
Axis Asset Management Company Ltd. Subsidiary India 75.00%
Axis Finance Ltd. Subsidiary India 100.00%
Axis Securities Ltd. Subsidiary India 100.00%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Ltd. Subsidiary India 100.00%
A.Treds Ltd. Subsidiary India 67.00%
Axis U.K. Ltd. (formerly Axis Bank UK Ltd.) Subsidiary U.K. 100.00%
Freecharge Business and Technology Services Ltd. Subsidiary India 100.00%
Axis Capital USA LLC Step down subsidiary USA 100.00%
Axis Pension Fund Management Ltd. Step down subsidiary India 47.27%
Axis Max Life Insurance Ltd. (formerly Max Life Insurance Company Associate India 19.02%
Ltd.)
c) The financial statements of certain subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with notified Indian
Accounting Standards (‘Ind-AS’). The financial statements of such subsidiaries used for consolidation are
special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP specified under section 133 of the
Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the companies (Accounting
Standards) Rules, 2021.
453
Financial statements
d) The audited financial statements of the above subsidiaries/step-down subsidiaries have been drawn up to the
same reporting date as that of the Bank, i.e. 31 March, 2025.
e) The financial statements of the Bank’s foreign subsidiary, Axis U.K. Limited (‘the Company’) are prepared in
accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards which have been converted to Indian GAAP for
the purpose of consolidated financial statements of the Group. Considering that the Company is currently under
liquidation, the financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a basis other than that of a going
concern. Basis the size and scale of operations of the Company, the impact of the above is not material on the
financial statements/position of the Group.
f) The Group’s share of net profit after tax for the year ended 31 March, 2025 as included in the consolidated
financial statements in respect of the Associate entity is based on management’s best estimate in the absence
of financial information of such Associate.
3. Use of estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with the generally accepted accounting
principles requires the Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) at the date of the financial statements, revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Management believes that the estimates
and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Any revisions, as and
when carried out, to the accounting estimates are recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
4. Changes in accounting policies-
Effective 1 April, 2024, the Bank has carried out the following changes in its accounting policies:
Classification and Valuation of Investments
Effective 1 April, 2024 the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on Classification,
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment Direction 2023’).
Accordingly, as prescribed under the transition provisions of the aforesaid framework the Bank has (1) transferred the
balance in Investment Reserve Account as at 31 March, 2024 of `242.29 crores to the general reserve (2) transferred
an amount of `1,217.86 crores (net of tax) to the general reserve, resulting into increase in the net worth of the Bank,
on account of reversal of balance in provision for depreciation on investments as at 31 March, 2024 and adjustment for
the difference between the carrying value of its investment portfolio as per the revised framework and the previous
carrying value as at 31 March, 2024.
Further, in compliance with the said RBI Investment Direction 2023, the valuation gains and losses at the period ended
31 March, 2025, across all performing investments held under Available for Sale (AFS) category are aggregated and the
net appreciation amounting to `110.39 crores (net of tax) has been directly recognised in AFS Reserve. The securities
held in Fair Value through Profit and Loss (‘FVTPL’) category are fair valued at the period ended 31 March, 2025 and
the net gain of `700.51 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2025, arising on such valuation has been recognised in
the Profit and Loss Account. Figures for the previous year are not comparable to that extent.
5. Significant accounting policies
5.1 Investments
Axis Bank Ltd.
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY25
Classification
In accordance with the RBI Investment Direction, 2023, investments (except investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates) are classified at the time of acquisition as:
454 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
• Held to Maturity (‘HTM’);
• Available for Sale (‘AFS’) and
• Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL) with Held for Trading (HFT) as a separate investment
subcategory within FVTPL.
Classification of Investments in the Balance sheet
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government Securities,
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associates and
Others. Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities, Subsidiaries
and/or Joint Ventures abroad and Others.
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted
for on trade date.
i. Held to Maturity (‘HTM’)
The Bank classifies investments as HTM, if both of the following conditions are met:
• The investment is acquired with the intention and objective of holding it to maturity, i.e., the financial
assets are held with an objective to collect the contractual cash flows; and
• The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
interest on principal outstanding (‘SPPI criterion’) on specified dates.
ii. Available for Sale (‘AFS’)
The Bank classifies investments as AFS, if both the following conditions are met:
• The investment is acquired with an objective which is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows
and selling securities; and
• The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that meet SPPI criterion on specified dates.
The Bank, upon initial recognition, may make an irrevocable election to classify an equity instrument as an AFS
that is not held with the objective of trading.
iii. Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL)
The investments that are not classified as HTM or AFS are classified as FVTPL. The Bank classifies investments in
FVTPL category as either FVTPL-Held for Trading (‘HFT’) or FVTPL Non-HFT. Any investment held by the Bank
for one or more of the following purposes is, when it is first recognised on its books, designated as a FVTPL HFT:
• short-term resale;
• profiting from short-term price movements;
• locking in arbitrage profits; or
• hedging risks that arise from instruments meeting all of the above
Investments in listed equities, trading-related repo-style transactions, instruments resulting from market-making
activities, equity investments in a fund are included in FVTPL HFT category. Investments in unlisted equities are
included in FVTPL Non-HFT category.
All other investments forming part of FVTPL category are classified as FVTPL Non-HFT.
455
Financial statements
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
All investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures held by Bank are classified under this category separately
from the aforesaid investment categories.
Initial recognition
The Bank measures all investments at fair value on initial recognition. Unless facts and circumstances suggest that the
fair value is materially different from the acquisition cost, it is presumed that the acquisition cost is the fair value.
i. Acquisition cost
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are
charged to the Profit and Loss Account. Broken period interest is charged to the Profit and Loss Account. Cost
of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
ii. Day 1 gain/loss
Day 1 Gain/loss is the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and acquisition cost.
Any Day 1 gain/loss arising on quoted investments is recognized in the Profit and Loss Account. Any Day 1 loss
arising from Level 3 investments is recognised immediately. Any Day 1 gains arising from Level 3 investments is
deferred. In the case of debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is amortized on a straight-line basis up to the maturity
date (or earliest call date for perpetual instruments), while for unquoted equity instruments, the gain is set aside
as a liability until the security is listed or derecognised.
iii. Subsequent measurement
a. Investments classified under the HTM category
Investments held in HTM category are carried at cost and are not Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’) after initial
recognition. Any discount or premium on the investments under HTM category is amortised over the
remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected under item II ‘Income on Investments’
of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
Realised gains on sale of investments in HTM category are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and
subsequently appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves)
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Realised losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
b. Investments classified under AFS category
Investments held in AFS category are fair valued. Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt
securities under AFS is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is
reflected in the financial statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest
Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
The net valuation gains and losses across all performing investments under AFS is aggregated and the net
appreciation or depreciation (net of tax) is directly credited or debited to the AFS Reserve without routing
through the Profit & Loss Account.
The AFS-Reserve is reckoned as Common Equity Tier (CET) 1 capital but not available for distribution of
dividend and coupon on Additional Tier I instruments
On sale or maturity of a debt instrument in AFS category, the accumulated gain/ loss for that security in
the AFS Reserve is transferred from the AFS Reserve and recognized in the Profit and Loss Account.
In the case of equity instruments designated under AFS at the time of initial recognition, any gain or loss
on sale of such investments is transferred from AFS Reserve to Capital Reserve in accordance with the RBI
Investment Direction, 2023.
456 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
c. Investments classified under FVTPL category
Investments held under FVTPL category are fair valued and the net gain or loss arising on such valuation
is directly credited or debited to the Profit and Loss Account.
Any discount or premium on the debt securities under FVTPL category is amortised over the remaining life
of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the financial statements under item II ‘Income on
Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
d. Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
The Bank measures all the investments (i.e., including debt and equity) in subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures at acquisition cost.
Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt securities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the financial
statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’.
Valuation
The Bank determines the fair values of its investments according to the following hierarchy:
Level 1: Valuation based on quoted market price: These investments are valued with quoted prices (unadjusted) for
identical instruments in active markets that the Bank can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: Valuation based on using observable inputs: These investments are valued with inputs other than quoted
prices included within Level 1, that are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: These investments are valued using valuation
techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
The fair value of various types of instruments is determined as per the valuation norms laid down in RBI Investment
Direction 2023, as follows:
• The fair value of quoted investments (other than discounted instruments) included in the AFS and FVTPL
categories is considered as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices, yield and spread
matrix declared by the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/Financial
Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically.
• Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted
instruments, are valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
• Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by
the mutual fund.
• Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) and Unquoted Alternative Investment Fund (AIFs) are valued at Net Asset
Value (NAV) declared by the funds. Where an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of its investments
by an independent valuer as per the frequency mandated by SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations,
2012 the value of its units is treated as Re. 1. In case AIF is not registered under SEBI (Alternative Investment
Fund) Regulations, 2012 and the latest disclosed valuation of its investments by an independent valuer precedes
the date of valuation by more than 18 months, the value of its units is treated as Re. 1.
• Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures category are assessed for impairment to determine
permanent diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.
• The fair value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the
norms prescribed by the RBI/FIMMDA/FBIL as under:
457
Financial statements
a) The fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio
(‘SLR’) securities forming part of AFS, FVTPL-HFT and FVTPL Non-HFT categories are computed as per
the rates published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
b) In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted
bonds, debentures and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue
beyond 90 days), the market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for such securities as
published by FIMMDA/FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the
instrument. The matrix for credit risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual
maturity issued by FIMMDA/FBIL is adopted for this purpose.
c) In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the
valuation is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
d) Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) are valued as per extant RBI/FIMMDA guidelines.
e) Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the
stock exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is
ascertained from the company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance
Sheet is not available, the shares are valued at Re. 1 per company.
f) Valuation of investments in private equity funds and limited liability partnership funds is based on valuation
of their underlying exposures.
g) Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust
(‘INVIT’) are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not
traded on any stock exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year)
submitted by the trust.
h) Investments in Government guaranteed Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued periodically by reckoning the
Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Reconstruction Company (‘ARC’) based on the recovery
ratings received for such instruments. Any Government guaranteed SRs outstanding after the final
settlement of the Government guarantee or the expiry of the guarantee period, whichever is earlier, are
valued at one rupee (`1).
Investments in other SRs are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing ARC or net book value of loans
transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal assessment on case to case basis,
whichever is lower. Investments in such Security Receipts where original maturity period has expired are
valued at one rupee (`1). In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than 10 percent of the
stressed assets sold by the Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of face value of
the SRs reduced by the provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms as
applicable to the underlying loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
Investment asset classification and provisioning
Investments under HTM, AFS and FVTPL category are subjected to income recognition, asset classification and
provisioning norms of RBI. Non-performing Investments (NPIs) are identified and provision is made thereon in the
Profit and Loss account, as per the RBI guidelines. Once an investment become NPI, the Bank segregates it from rest of
the portfolio and does not consider it for netting valuation gains and losses. A NPI investment is segregated from other
investments within the same category [i.e., HTM, AFS, or FVTPL] under which it was classified at initial recognition.
Interest on NPIs is not recognized in the Profit and Loss Account until received. MTM appreciation in case of NPIs over
and above the book value is not recognized and ignored.
Reclassification between categories
Reclassification of investments between categories (viz. HTM, AFS and FVTPL) if any is carried out only after, prior
approval of Board of Directors and RBI and the same is accounted for in accordance with the RBI guidelines.
458 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Short sales
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated
securities. Such short positions are categorised under FVTPL category and netted off from investments in the Balance
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under FVTPL portfolio and the resultant
MTM gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY24
Classification
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are classified at the time of purchase as:
• Held for Trading (‘HFT’);
• Available for Sale (‘AFS’); and
• Held to Maturity (‘HTM’).
Investments that are held principally for sale within a short period are classified as HFT securities. As per the RBI
guidelines, HFT securities, which remain unsold for a period of 90 days are transferred to AFS securities.
Investments that the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified under the HTM category. Investments in
the equity of subsidiaries/joint ventures and investments under TLTRO guidelines are categorised as HTM in
accordance with the RBI guidelines.
All other investments are classified as AFS securities.
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures
and Others. Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities,
Subsidiaries and/or Joint Ventures abroad and Others.
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted
for on trade date.
Transfer of security between categories
Transfer of security between categories of investments is accounted for as per the RBI guidelines.
Acquisition cost
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are charged to
the Profit and Loss Account.
Broken period interest on debt instruments and government securities is charged to the Profit and Loss Account.
Cost of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
Valuation
Investments classified under the HTM category: Investments are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than
the face value, in which case the premium is amortised over the period remaining to maturity on a constant yield
to maturity basis. Such amortization of premium is adjusted against interest income under the head ‘Income from
Investments’ under Schedule 13 in Profit and Loss Account. As per the RBI guidelines, discount on securities held
under HTM category is not accrued and such securities are held at the acquisition cost till maturity.
Investments in subsidiaries/joint ventures are categorised as HTM and assessed for impairment to determine
permanent diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.
459
Financial statements
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Investments under these categories are marked to market.
The market/fair value of quoted investments included in the AFS and HFT categories is the market price of the scrip
as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices declared by the Fixed Income Money Market
and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/ Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically. Net
depreciation, if any, within each category of each investment classification is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
The net appreciation if any, under each category of each investment classification is ignored. Net depreciation on each
type of investments falling under the residual category of ‘Others’ (i.e. mutual funds, Pass Through Certificates (PTCs),
security receipts etc.) is not offset against gain in another class of investment falling within the ‘Others’ category.
Further, in case of standard investments classified as weak as per the Bank’s internal framework (including certain
internally unrated investments), the Bank recognizes net depreciation without availing the benefit of set-off against
appreciation within the same class of investments as permitted under the extant RBI circular. The depreciation on
securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is provided in accordance with the RBI guidelines.
Provision for depreciation on investments is classified under Schedule-14 ‘Other Income’. The book value of individual
securities is not changed consequent to the periodic valuation of investments.
Non-performing investments are identified and provision is made thereon as per the RBI guidelines. Provision for
depreciation on such non-performing investments is not set off against the appreciation in respect of other performing
securities as per RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing investments is not recognized in the Profit and Loss
Account until received.
Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted instruments,
are valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by the mutual fund.
Market value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the norms
prescribed by the RBI as under:
The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (‘SLR’)
securities forming part of AFS and HFT categories is computed as per the rates published by FIMMDA/ FBIL.
In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted bonds,
debentures, and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue beyond 90 days), the
market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for Government Securities as published by FIMMDA/
FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the instrument. The matrix for credit
risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual maturity issued by FIMMDA/FBIL is adopted
for this purpose.
In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the valuation is
in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
PTC and Priority Sector PTCs are valued as per extant FIMMDA guidelines.
Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the stock
exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is ascertained from
the Company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance Sheet is not available, the
shares are valued at `1 per company.
Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust (‘INVIT’)
are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not traded on any stock
exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) submitted by the trust.
Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) / Alternative Investment Funds (‘AIF’) held under AFS category where current
quotations are not available are valued based on NAV as published in the latest audited financial statements of the
fund or NAV as provided by the fund. In case the audited financials are not available for a period beyond 18 months,
the investments are valued at `1 per VCF/AIF. Investment in unquoted VCF/AIF may be categorized under HTM
category for the initial period of three years and are valued at cost as per the RBI guidelines.
460 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Investments in Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing Asset Reconstruction
Company (‘ARC’) or net book value of loans transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal
assessment on case to case basis, whichever is lower. In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than 10
percent of the stressed assets sold by the Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of face value
of the SRs reduced by the provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms as applicable
to the underlying loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
Disposal of investments
Investments classified under the HTM category: Realised gains are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and
subsequently appropriated to Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves) in accordance
with the RBI guidelines. Losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Realised gains/losses are recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account.
Short sales
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated
securities. Such short positions are categorised under HFT category and netted off from investments in the Balance
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under HFT portfolio and the resultant
Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’) gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.
Subsidiaries
Investments are initially recognised at cost which comprises purchase price and directly attributable acquisition
charges such as brokerage, fees and duties.
Investments which are readily realisable and intended to be held for not more than one year from the date on
which such investments are made, are classified as current investments. All other investments are classified as long
term investments.
Current investments are carried in the financial statements at lower of cost and fair value determined on an individual
investment basis. Any reduction in the carrying amount and any reversal of such reductions are charged or credited to
the Profit and Loss Account.
Long term investments are stated at cost. Provision is made to recognise a decline, other than temporary, in the value
of such investments.
On disposal of an investment, the difference between its carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is charged or
credited to the Profit and Loss Account.
5.2 Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions
Axis Bank Ltd.
Repurchase transactions (‘Repos’)
Repurchase transactions in Government securities and corporate debt securities including those conducted under the
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Marginal Standby Facility (‘MSF’) with RBI are accounted for as collateralised
borrowings. Accordingly, securities given as collateral under an agreement to repurchase them, continue to be held
under the investment account and the Bank continues to accrue the coupon on the security during the repo period.
Borrowing cost on such repo transactions is accounted as interest expense in “Schedule 15 – Interest Expended” in
the Profit and Loss Account.
Reverse repurchase transactions (‘Reverse repos’)
Reverse repurchase transactions with RBI with original maturity upto 14 days, including those conducted under the
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Standing Deposit Facility (‘SDF’) are accounted for as collateralised lending
under “Schedule 6 - Balances with RBI - in Other Accounts”. Reverse repurchase transactions with banks and other
461
Financial statements
financial institutions with original maturity upto 14 days, are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule 7
- Balances with Banks and Money at call and short notice”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest
income under “Schedule 13 – Interest Earned – Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and Other Inter-bank
Funds” in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reverse repos with original maturity of more than 14 days are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule
9 - Advances”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest income under “Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
– Interest/discount on advances/bills” in the Profit and Loss account.
5.3 Advances
Axis Bank Ltd.
Classification and measurement of advances
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and are
stated net of bills rediscounted, inter-bank participation certificates, specific provisions made towards NPAs, interest
in suspense for NPAs, claims received from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation, provisions for funded interest on
term loans classified as NPAs and floating provisions. Structured collateralised foreign currency loans extended to
customers and deposits received from the same customer are reported on a net basis.
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank participation with and without risk. In accordance with the RBI
guidelines, in the case of participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued by the Bank is
reduced from advances and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of the participation is classified
under advances. In the case of participation without risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank is
classified under borrowings and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of participation is shown as due
from banks under advances.
Non-performing advances and provision on non-performing advances
NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by the RBI. Advances
held at the overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than
record of recovery, but which are standard as per the RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount
outstanding in the host country. NPAs are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
Provisions for NPAs are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets at rates as prescribed by the RBI with the exception
of schematic retail advances, agriculture advances and advances to Commercial Banking segment. In respect of
schematic retail advances, provisions are made in terms of a bucket-wise policy upon reaching specified stages of
delinquency (90 days or more of delinquency) under each type of loan, which satisfies the RBI prudential norms on
provisioning. Provisions in respect of Commercial Banking segment advances and agriculture advances classified into
sub-standard and doubtful assets are made at rates which are higher than those prescribed by the RBI.
Provisions for advances booked in overseas branches, which are standard as per the RBI guidelines but are identified
as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than record of recovery, are made as per the host
country regulations.
In case of NPAs referred to the National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code,
2016 (‘IBC’) where resolution plan or liquidation order has been approved by NCLT, provision is maintained at higher
of the requirement under the RBI guidelines or the likely haircut as per resolution plan or liquidation order.
Loans reported as fraud are classified as loss assets, and fully provided for immediately without considering the
value of security.
Provision on restructured assets
Restructured assets including compromise settlements where the time for payment of the agreed settlement
amount exceeds three months are classified and provided for in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI
from time to time.
462 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
In respect of advances where resolution plan has been implemented under the RBI guidelines on “Resolution Framework
for COVID 19-related Stress” and “Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Sector – Restructuring of Advances”,
provisions are maintained as per the internal framework of the Bank at rates which are higher than those specified
under the extant RBI guidelines. Restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
Provisions held on restructured assets are reported in Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
Write-offs and recoveries from written-off accounts
Write-offs are carried out in accordance with the Bank’s policy.
Amounts recovered against debts written off are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as a credit to Provision
and Contingencies.
Appropriation of funds for standard advances
In case of Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) based standard retail advances, funds received from customers are
appropriated in the order of principal, interest and charges. In case of other standard advances, funds received from
customers are appropriated in the order of charges, interest and principal.
Other provisions on advances classified under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’ in the Balance Sheet
The Bank recognises additional provisions as per the RBI’s guidelines on accounts in default and with aggregate
exposure above the threshold limits as laid down in the guidelines where the resolution plan is not implemented within
the specified timelines. These provisions are written back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
In respect of borrowers classified as non-cooperative or wilful defaulters the Bank makes accelerated provisions as per
the extant RBI guidelines.
In the case of one-time settlements with borrowers that are entered into but not closed as on the reporting date, the
Bank makes provisions which is the higher of (i) the provision required based on asset classification; and (ii) the amount
of contracted sacrifice, on a portfolio basis.
The Bank makes incremental provisioning (determined based on a time scale and on occurrence of predefined events)
on all outstanding advances and investments relating to borrowers tagged as Red Flagged Accounts (‘RFA’).
For entities with Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure (‘UFCE’), provision is made in accordance with the guidelines
issued by the RBI, which requires ascertaining the amount of UFCE, estimating the extent of likely loss and estimating
the riskiness of the unhedged position. Further, incremental capital is maintained in respect of such borrower counter
parties in the highest risk category, in line with stipulations by the RBI.
The Bank maintains provisions for incremental exposure of the banking system to specified borrowers beyond the
Normally Permitted Lending Limit (‘NPLL’) in proportion to the Bank’s funded exposure to the specified borrowers as
per the RBI guidelines.
The Bank maintains a general provision on standard advances at the rates prescribed by the RBI. In respect of advances
to stressed sectors, such general provision is made at rates higher than the regulatory minimum as per the internal
policy of the Bank. The general provision on corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’
and all Special Mention Accounts-2 (‘SMA-2’) advances as reported to Central Repository of Information on Large
Credits (‘CRILC’), maintained at rates that are higher than those prescribed by RBI. In case of overseas branches,
general provision on standard advances is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the respective overseas
regulator or by the extant RBI guidelines. The Bank also maintains general provision on positive Mark-to-Market
(MTM) on derivative transactions at the rates prescribed under the extant RBI guidelines.
The Bank also maintains additional provision on standard accounts in a particular borrower group where one or
more entity in the group is classified as NPA, subject to the aggregate outstanding of such entities being above a
certain threshold limit. Such provision is in addition to and at rates higher than the provision for standard assets as
prescribed by RBI.
463
Financial statements
The Bank also maintains provision on non-funded outstanding in relation to NPAs, prudentially written off accounts,
corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’ and all SMA-2 advances as reported to CRILC.
Under its home loan portfolio, the Bank offers housing loans with certain features involving waiver of EMIs for a
specific period subject to fulfilment of certain conditions by the borrower. The Bank makes provision against the
probable loss that could be incurred in future on account of these waivers to eligible borrowers, based on actuarial
valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
As approved by the Board of Directors, the Bank holds prudent provision under other contingencies of `5,012 crores,
towards potential expected losses on certain standard advances and / or exposures.
Axis Finance Ltd.
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and are stated
net of specific provisions made towards NPAs. Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets
based on the criteria stipulated by the RBI.
Provisions for standard assets and NPAs are made at rates as prescribed by the Company policy which is over and
above the minimum requirements under the RBI guidelines.
5.4 Country risk
Axis Bank Ltd.
In addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are held for
individual country exposure (other than for home country as per the RBI guidelines). Such provisions are held only in
respect of those countries where the net funded exposure of the Bank exceeds 1% of its total assets. For this purpose,
the countries are categorized into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderate, high, very high, restricted
and off-credit as per internal parameters in accordance with RBI guidelines. Provision is made on exposures exceeding
180 days on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 100%. For exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180
days, 25% of the normal provision requirement is held. If the net funded exposure of the Bank in respect of each
country does not exceed 1% of the total assets, no provision is maintained on such country exposure in accordance
with RBI guidelines. Indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure. This provision is classified under Schedule
5 – Other Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
5.5 Securitisation and transfer of assets
Axis Bank Ltd.
Securitisation of Standard Assets
The Bank enters into purchase/sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment/Special Purpose Vehicle
(‘SPV’). In most cases, post securitisation, the Bank continues to service the loans transferred to the assignee/SPV. The
Bank also provides credit enhancement in the form of cash collaterals and/or by subordination of cash flows to Senior
Pass Through Certificate holders. In respect of credit enhancements provided or recourse obligations (projected
delinquencies, future servicing etc.) accepted by the Bank, appropriate provision/disclosure is made at the time of sale
in accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as notified under Section 133 of
the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting
Standards) Rules, 2021.In accordance with RBI guidelines on Securitisation of Standard Assets, any loss, profit or
premium realised at the time of the sale is accounted for in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during
which the sale is completed. However, in case of unrealised gains arising out of sale of underlying assets to the SPV,
the profit is recognised in Profit and Loss Account only when such unrealised gains associated with such income is
redeemed in cash.
Transfer of Loan Exposures
In accordance with RBI guidelines on Transfer of Loan exposures, any profit or loss arising post transfer of loans, which
is realised, is accounted for and reflected in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during which the
464 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
transfer is completed. Loans acquired are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the outstanding principal at
the time of the transfer, in which case the premium paid is amortised based on a straight line method.
Axis Finance Limited
The Company enters into purchase/sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment/securitisation. The
loans are recognised/derecognised in the books based on the risk and reward associated with the underlying loans in
compliance with RBI guidelines on ‘Transfer of loan assets’ and ‘Securitization of assets’.
5.6 Priority Sector Lending Certificates
Axis Bank Ltd.
The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (‘PSLCs’). In the case
of a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction
the Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through the RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of loan
assets in PSLC transactions.
5.7 Translation of Foreign Currency items
Group
In respect of domestic operations, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for at the rates
prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the closing
rates of exchange as notified by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India (‘FEDAI’). All profits/losses resulting
from year end revaluations are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Financial statements of foreign branches classified as non-integral foreign operations as per the RBI guidelines, are
translated as follows:
Assets and liabilities (both monetary and non-monetary as well as contingent liabilities) are translated at closing
exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the Balance Sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the date of the transactions.
All resulting exchange differences are accumulated in a separate ‘Foreign Currency Translation Reserve’ (FCTR) till
the disposal of the net investments. Any realised gains or losses on such disposal are recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account except for those that relate to repatriation of accumulated profits which are reclassified from FCTR to
‘Balance in Profit and Loss Account’ under Schedule 2 – Reserves and Surplus in the Balance Sheet.
Contingent liabilities on account of forward exchange and derivative contracts, guarantees, acceptances, endorsements
and other obligations denominated in foreign currencies are disclosed at closing rates of exchange notified by FEDAI.
5.8 Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
Axis Bank Ltd.
Derivative transactions comprise of forward contracts, swaps and options which are disclosed as contingent liabilities.
The forwards, swaps and options are categorised as trading or hedge transactions.
Trading derivatives
Trading derivative contracts are revalued based on actual traded and/or derived from curves published by external
market sources or FBIL with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive MTM) and in other liabilities (representing negative MTM)
on a gross basis.
Outstanding forward exchange contracts including tom/spot contracts (excluding swaps undertaken to hedge foreign
currency assets/liabilities and funding swaps) as at Balance Sheet date are revalued at closing spot and forward rates
as applicable as notified by FEDAI/FBIL and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. Valuation is
465
Financial statements
considered on present value basis by discounting the forward value till cash date using Alternative Reference Rate
(‘ARR’) curve and converting the foreign currency amount using the respective spot rates as notified by FEDAI/FBIL.
The resulting gains or losses on revaluation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
Currency futures contracts are mark-to-market using the daily settlement price on a trading day, which is the closing
price of the respective futures contracts on that day. While the daily settlement price is computed based on the last
half an hour weighted average price of such contracts, the final settlement price is taken as the RBI reference rate on
the last trading day of the futures contracts or as may be specified by the relevant authority from time to time. All
open positions are marked-to-market based on the settlement price and the resultant MTM profit/loss is daily settled
with the exchange.
Valuation of Exchange Traded Currency Options (‘ETCO’) is carried out using internal pricing models and valuation
of Interest Rate Futures (‘IRF’) is carried out on the basis of the daily settlement price of each contract provided
by the exchange.
Premium on options is recognized as income/expense on expiry or early termination of the transaction.
Hedging derivatives including funding swaps
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading (including funding swaps that are entered into to establish
the amount of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction), and are outstanding at
the Balance Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate.
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line
basis as expense or income over the life of the contract.
For hedge transactions through other derivatives, the Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception
of transaction itself. The effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter.
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognized
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of hedging instrument for
the effective portion is recognised in Schedule 2- ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under ‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’ and the
ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The
accumulated balance in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the Profit
and Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Provisioning
Pursuant to the RBI guidelines any receivables under derivative contracts comprising of crystallised receivables as
well as positive MTM in respect of future receivables which remain overdue for more than 90 days are reversed
through the Profit and Loss account and are held in a separate suspense account under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities
and Provisions’.
Axis Finance Limited
The Company enters into forward contracts to hedge the foreign currency risk of firm commitments and highly
probable forecast transactions. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are
entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting
gain or loss is recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and
effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the Profit and Loss Account depends
on the nature of the hedging relationship and the nature of the hedged item.
Cash Flow Hedges
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that (i) is attributable to a particular risk
associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or a firm commitment in
respect of foreign currency and (ii) could affect the statement of profit and loss. Under a cash flow hedge, the hedging
466 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
instrument is measured at fair value, but any gain or loss that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognized
in equity, e.g., cash flow hedge reserve. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is
recognized immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Fair Value Hedges
A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised
firm commitment, or an identified portion of such an asset, liability or firm commitment, that is attributable to a
particular risk and could affect the statement of profit and loss. When applying fair value hedge accounting, the
hedging instrument is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
The hedged item is remeasured to fair value in respect of the hedged risk even if normally it is measured at cost, e.g.,
a fixed rate borrowing. Any resulting adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item related to the hedged risk
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account even if normally such a change may not be recognised, e.g., for inventory
being hedged for fair value changes. The fair value changes of the hedged item and the hedging instrument will offset
and result in no net impact in the Profit and Loss Account except for the impact of ineffectiveness.
5.9 Revenue recognition
Axis Bank Ltd.
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with AS–9, Revenue Recognition as notified under
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, the Companies
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and the RBI guidelines except in the case of interest income on non-performing
assets where it is recognised on receipt basis as per the income recognition and asset classification norms of RBI. Any
discount or premium on the investments in debt-securities is amortised as interest income over the remaining life of
the instrument. Interest income on investments in PTCs is recognized on a constant yield basis.
Commission on Guarantees and Letters of Credit (‘LC’) is recognised on a pro-rata basis over the period of the
Guarantee/LC. Locker rent is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of contract. Annual fee for credit
cards and debit cards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of service. Arrangership/syndication fee is
accounted for on completion of the agreed service and when the right to receive is established.
Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate collection.
Penal charges on loans are recognized as income on actual realization.
Other fees and commission income are recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate
collection. Payouts made to network partners and entities with co-branded arrangements, in the nature of sharing of
fees or based on driver of volume/spends are netted off from the respective fee and commission income.
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
Gain/loss on sell down of loans and advances through direct assignment is recognised at the time of sale.
Fees paid for purchase of PSLCs are amortised on straight-line basis over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Other
Expenditure’ under Schedule 16 of the Profit and Loss Account. Fees received on sale of PSLCs are amortised
on straight-line basis over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Miscellaneous Income’ under Schedule 14 of the Profit
and Loss Account.
In accordance with RBI guidelines on sale of non-performing advances, if the sale is at a price below the net book
value (i.e. book value less provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and Loss Account. If the sale is for a
value higher than the net book value, the excess provision is credited to the Profit and Loss Account in the year the
amounts are received.
The Bank deals in bullion on a consignment basis. The difference between the amount recovered from customers and
cost of bullion is accounted for at the time of sale to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and
lending basis and the interest paid/received is accounted for on an accrual basis.
467
Financial statements
Subsidiaries
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the
revenue can be reliably measured. Fee income is recognised on the basis of accrual when all the services are performed
and there is reasonable certainty of ultimate collection.
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis.
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
Income from sale of investments is determined on weighted average basis and recognised on the trade date basis.
Axis Capital Limited
Brokerage income in relation to stock broking activity is recognised as per contracted rates at the execution of
transactions on behalf of the customers on a trade date basis. Gains/losses on dealing in securities are recognised on
a trade date basis.
Revenue from issue management, loan syndication, and financial advisory services is recognised based on the stage of
completion of assignments and terms of agreement with the client.
Selling commissions/brokerage generated from primary market operations i.e. procuring subscriptions from investors
for public offerings of companies, mutual funds, etc. are recorded on determination of the amount due to the Company,
once the allotment of securities are completed.
Axis Trustee Services Limited
Annual fees for trusteeship services and servicing fees are recognised, on a straight line basis, over the period when
services are performed. Initial acceptance fee for trusteeship services is recognised as and when the ‘Offer Letter’ for
the services to be rendered is accepted by the customer.
A provision for doubtful debts is recognized where, in the case of Initial Acceptance Fees, the receivables are not
realized within 90 days from the date of invoice, and in the case of Annual Fees, the receivables are not realized within
90 days from the end of the period for which the invoice is issued. Where doubtful debt remains unrecovered till the
end of the year, the same is written off and reversed from the debtors account. Specific provisions are created in
certain cases where recovery is assessed as doubtful even before the due date.
Realised gains and losses on mutual funds are dealt with in the Profit and Loss Account. The cost of units in mutual
fund sold is determined on FIFO basis for the purpose of calculating gains or losses on sale/redemption of such units.
Axis Asset Management Company Limited
Management fees are recognised on accrual basis. The fees charged are in accordance with the terms of scheme
information documents of respective schemes and are in line with the provisions of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations,
1996 as amended from time to time.
Management fees from Portfolio Management Services, Alternate Investment Fund and Investment advisory fees-
offshore are recognized on an accrual basis as per the terms of the contract with the customers.
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
Trustee fee is recognised on accrual basis, at the specific rates/amount approved by the Board of Directors of the
Company, within the limits specified under the Deed of Trust, and is applied on the net assets of each scheme of
Axis Mutual Fund.
Axis Finance Limited
Interest income is recognized on an accrual basis except in the case of interest income on non-performing assets where
it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition and asset classification norms prescribed by the RBI.
Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument on a straight-line method.
Front end fees on processing of loans are recognised upfront as income.
468 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Axis Securities Limited
Business sourcing and resource management fees are recognised on accrual basis in accordance with the terms and
contracts entered between the Company and counterparty.
Brokerage income on securities is recognized as per contracted rates at the execution of transactions on behalf of the
customers on the trade date.
Gains/ losses on dealing in securities are recognized on a trade date basis.
Fees earned for the provision of services are recognised over time as the customer simultaneously receives and
consumes the benefits, as the services are rendered. These include brokerage fees which is fixed at inception
irrespective of number of transactions executed. The revenue for such contracts is recognised on consumption of
benefits and the balance unutilized plan value is recognised on maturity/ validity of the plan.
Selling commissions/brokerage generated from primary market operations i.e. procuring subscriptions from investors
for public offerings of companies, mutual funds etc. are recorded on determination of the amount due to the Company,
once the allotment of securities are completed.
Depository fees are recognised on completion of the transaction.
Portfolio management fees are accounted on accrual basis as follows:
• In case of fees based on fixed percentage of the corpus/fixed amount, income is accrued at the end of
the quarter/month.
• In case of fees, based on the returns of the portfolio, income is accounted on each anniversary as
per the agreement.
A.Treds Ltd.
Onboarding fee is a one-time fee and is recognized at the time of onboarding of buyer, seller or financier. Transaction
fee is recurring in nature and is recognised on time proportion basis over the tenure of transaction. Transaction fee
received from sellers is recognised upfront on the date of transaction. The Company follows recognition of annual fees
on time proportion basis over the tenure of one year.
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Ltd.
Merchant checkout fee is recognised on the basis of successful pay-out of wallet usage to the respective merchants.
Revenues from operating an internet portal, providing recharge and bill payment services are recognized upon
successful recharge/payment confirmation for the transaction executed. The Company collects Goods and Service
Taxes (GST) on behalf of the government and therefore, these are not economic benefits flowing to the Company.
Hence, they are excluded from revenue.
Revenue from services i.e. sound box is recognized when the control in services is transferred as per the terms of
the agreement with merchant i.e. as and when services are rendered. Revenues are disclosed net of the Goods and
Services Tax charged on such services.
Revenues from ancillary activities like convenience fee, merchant monetization fees, issuance fees, system integration,
paid coupon income, marketing fee etc. are recognised upon rendering of services.
Axis Pension Fund Management Company Ltd.
Investment management fees are recognised on an accrual basis net of Goods and Services Tax on the daily closing
assets under management across respective schemes under pension funds.
Management fees from schemes defined by the PFRDA are recognized on an accrual basis as per the terms
defined by PFRDA.
469
Financial statements
5.10 Scheme expenses
Axis Asset Management Company Ltd.
New fund offer expenses
Expenses relating to new fund offer of Axis Mutual Fund are charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in
which they are incurred.
Commission
Commission paid on Alternate Investment Fund schemes is amortized over the minimum tenure of the scheme. The
unamortized portion of the commission is carried forward as prepaid expense.
5.11 Fixed assets and depreciation
Group
Fixed assets are carried at cost of acquisition less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Cost includes initial
handling and delivery charges, duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the
asset. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only when it increases the future economic
benefit / functioning capability from / of such assets.
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of fixed assets that are not ready for their intended use and also includes
advances paid to acquire fixed assets.
Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful life of a fixed asset on a straight-line method from the date of
addition. The Management believes that depreciation rates currently used, fairly reflect its estimate of the useful lives
and residual values of fixed assets based on the historical experience of the Group, though these rates in certain cases
are different from those prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. Whenever there is a revision of the
estimated useful life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over the revised remaining useful life
of the said asset.
Asset Estimated useful life As per Companies Act, 2013
Leased Land As per the term of the agreement -
Owned premises 60 years 60 years
Furniture and Fittings including interior 9 years to 10 years 10 years
Office/Electrical equipment and installations 5 years to 10 years 5 years to 10 years
Application software 5 years -
Vehicles 4 years 8 years
Computer hardware including printers 3 years 3 years
CCTV and video conferencing equipment 3 years 5 years
Assets costing less than `5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
Depreciation on assets sold during the year is recognised on a pro-rata basis in the Profit and Loss Accounts till
the date of sale.
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of fixed assets are determined as the difference between the
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of assets and are recognised as income or expense in the Profit and
Loss Account. Further, profit on sale of premises is appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and
transfer to Statutory Reserve) in accordance with RBI instructions.
470 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
5.12 Impairment of Fixed Assets
The carrying amounts of fixed assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to ascertain if there is any indication of
impairment based on internal/external factors. An impairment loss is recognised wherever the carrying amount of an
asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and value
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value at the weighted
average cost of capital. After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying amount of the asset over its
remaining useful life.
5.13 Non-banking assets
Axis Bank Ltd.
Non-banking assets (‘NBAs’) acquired in satisfaction of claims include land. In the case of land, the Bank creates
provision and follows the accounting treatment as per specific RBI directions.
5.14 Lease Transactions
Group
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership over the lease term are
classified as operating lease. Lease payments for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the
Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless the payments are structured to increase in
line with expected general inflation to compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increase. Lease income
from assets given on operating lease is recognized as income in the Profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis over
the lease term.
5.15 Employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits comprise salaries and other compensations payable for services which the employee
has rendered during the period. These are recognized at the undiscounted amount in the Profit and Loss Account.
Defined benefit plans
The Bank has defined benefit plans in the form of provident fund, gratuity and resettlement allowance. Provident and
Gratuity are in the nature of funded defined benefit plans and resettlement allowance is in the nature of unfunded
defined benefit plan.
• Provident Fund
Axis Bank Ltd
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined benefit plan wherein the contributions are charged
to the Profit and Loss Account of the year when such contributions are due and when services are rendered
by the employees. Further, an actuarial valuation is conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected
Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year to determine the deficiency, if any, in the interest payable on the
contributions as compared to the interest liability as per the statutory rate declared by the Central Government
and the shortfall if any due to fluctuations in price or impairment, in the aggregate asset values of the Trust as
compared to the market value. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognized in the Profit and Loss Account
and are not deferred.
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary
towards respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines.
Subsidiaries
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined contribution scheme. The Company has no
obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Company recognises contribution
payable to the provident fund scheme as an expenditure, when an employee renders the related service. The
contributions are accounted for on an accrual basis and charged to the Profit & Loss Account.
471
Financial statements
• Gratuity
Axis Bank Ltd.
The Bank contributes towards gratuity fund (defined benefit retirement plan) administered by various insurers
for eligible employees. Under this scheme, the settlement obligation remains with the Bank, although the
insurers administer the scheme and determine the contribution premium required to be paid by the Bank. The
plan provides a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement or termination of employment based
on the respective employee’s salary and the years of employment with the Bank. The liability with regard to
the gratuity fund is recognized based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the
Projected Unit Credit Method as at each reporting date based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest,
salary growth, mortality and staff attrition. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognized in the Profit and
Loss Account and are not deferred.
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Pending
notification of the Code and issuance of the final rules/interpretation, the Bank has adopted a prudent policy for
recognition of provision in respect of the gratuity liability under the Code over and above the provisions made
in the normal course based on the extant rules. Such provision is determined as at each reporting date, based on
actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
In respect of employees at overseas branches (other than expatriates), the liability with regard to gratuity is
provided on the basis of a prescribed method as per local laws, wherever applicable.
Subsidiaries
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit obligation and is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation using
Projected Unit Credit Method made at the end of each financial year. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately
recognized in the Profit and Loss Account and are not deferred.
• Resettlement Allowance
Axis Bank Ltd
The Bank provides for resettlement allowance liability in the form of six months’ pay at the time of separation, for
certain eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition.
Provision for this liability is based on an actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the
Projected Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year based on certain assumptions regarding discount rate
and salary escalation rate.
• Compensated Absences
Subsidiaries (Axis Capital Limited and Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited)
Accumulated leaves, which are expected to be utilized within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term
employee benefit. The expected cost of such absences is measured as the additional amount that is expected to
be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date.
Accumulated leave which is expected to be carried forward beyond twelve months are treated as long-term
employee benefit for measurement purposes. Such compensated absences are provided for based on the
actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method at the year-end. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and are not deferred.
Defined Contribution plans
• Superannuation
Axis Bank Ltd.
Employees of the Bank (other than those who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business
acquisition) are entitled to receive retirement benefits under the Bank’s superannuation scheme either under a
472 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
cash-out option through salary or under a defined contribution plan. Through this defined contribution plan the
Bank contributes annually a sum equal to 10% of the employee’s eligible annual basic salary to the Life Insurance
Corporation of India (LIC), which undertakes to pay the lump sum and annuity benefit payments pursuant to the
scheme. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
Eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition are
entitled to receive a lumpsum corpus amount under a separate superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of
10 years as a defined contribution plan. Through this plan, the Bank makes a defined contribution annually of a
sum equal to 15% of such employee’s eligible annual basic salary to a Superannuation Trust, which undertakes to
pay the lump sum payments pursuant to the scheme after the vesting period. Such contributions are recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
• National Pension Scheme (‘NPS’)
Group
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the NPS, the Group contributes a certain percentage of the
total basic salary of such employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined contribution plan, which is managed and
administered by pension fund management companies. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account in the period in which they accrue.
• Long term deferred variable pay structure
Axis Capital Ltd.
As part of its variable pay structure, the Company operates a long term deferred variable pay structure plan
in which it defers a part of the entitlement which is to be settled in installments over a period of three years
at an amount which would be equivalent to the prevailing price of equity shares of Axis Bank at the time of
settlement. The costs of providing benefits under this plan is determined on the basis of actuarial valuation at
the year-end using the projected unit credit method.
5.16 Reward points
Axis Bank Ltd.
The Bank runs a loyalty program which seeks to recognize and reward customers based on their relationship with
the Bank. Under the program, eligible customers are granted loyalty points redeemable in future, subject to certain
conditions. In addition, the Bank continues to grant reward points in respect of certain credit cards (not covered under
the loyalty program). The Bank estimates the provision for such loyalty/reward points using an actuarial method at the
Balance Sheet date through an independent actuary, basis assumptions such as redemption rate, lapse rate, discount
rate, value of reward points etc. Provision for the said reward points is then made based on the actuarial valuation
report as furnished by the said independent actuary.
5.17 Taxation
Group
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax charge. Current year taxes are determined
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and considering the material principles set out
in the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to the extent applicable. Deferred income taxes reflect the
impact of current year timing differences between taxable income and accounting income for the year and reversal of
timing differences of earlier years.
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates and the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance
Sheet date. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off
assets against liabilities representing current tax and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to the
taxes on income levied by same governing taxation laws.
473
Financial statements
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future taxable
income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. The impact of changes in the deferred
tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Deferred tax assets are recognised and reassessed at each reporting date, based upon the Management’s judgement
as to whether realisation is considered as reasonably certain. Deferred tax assets are recognised on carry forward of
unabsorbed depreciation and tax losses only if there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that such
deferred tax asset can be realised against future profits.
5.18 Share issue expenses
Group
Share issue expenses are adjusted from the Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.19 Corporate Social Responsibility
Group
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in accordance with
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.20 Earnings per share
Group
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share, as notified
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit after
tax by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue
equity shares were exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted
average number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding at the year end except where the
results are anti-dilutive.
5.21 Employee stock option/unit scheme
Axis Bank Ltd.
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) provides for grant of stock options on equity shares of the Bank to
employees and Directors of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Under the Scheme, options are granted at an exercise price,
which is equal to the fair market price of the underlying equity shares at the date of the grant. The fair market price is
the latest available closing price, prior to the date of grant, on the stock exchange on which the shares of the Bank are
listed. If the shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, then the stock exchange where there is highest trading
volume on the said date is considered.
Further, the Employees Stock Unit Scheme (‘the ESU Scheme’) provides for grant of stock units convertible into
equivalent number of fully paid-up equity share(s) of the Bank to eligible employees. The stock units are granted at an
exercise price as determined by the Bank and specified at the time of grant which shall not be less than the face value
of the equity shares of the Bank.
As per RBI guidelines, for options/units granted after 31 March, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method and
recognizes the fair value of such options/units computed using the Black-Scholes model without reducing estimated
forfeitures, as compensation expense over the vesting period. On exercise of the stock options/units, the corresponding
balance under Employee Stock Options/Units Outstanding account is transferred to the Share Premium account. In
474 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
respect of the options/units which expire unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock Options/
Units Outstanding account is transferred to the General Reserve. In respect of Employee Stock Options/Units
which are granted to the employees of the subsidiaries, the Bank recovers the cost from the subsidiaries over the
vesting period.
5.22 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Group
In accordance with AS-29 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets-” provision is recognised when
the Group has a present obligation as a result of past event where it is probable that an outflow of resources will be
required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are not discounted to
its present value and are determined based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet
date. These are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
• a possible obligation arising from a past event, the existence of which will be confirmed by occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not within the control of the Group; or
• a present obligation arising from a past event which is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow
of resources will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation
cannot be made.
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is
remote, no provision or disclosure is made contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements. However,
contingent assets are assessed continually and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the
asset and related income are recognised in the period in which the change occurs.
5.23 Accounting for dividend
Group
As per AS-4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance Sheet date’ as notified by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, the Group does not account for proposed dividend
as a liability through appropriation from the Profit and Loss Account. The same is recognised in the year of actual
payout post approval of the shareholders. However, the Bank considers proposed dividend in determining capital
funds in computing the capital adequacy ratio as on the reporting date.
5.24 Cash and cash equivalents
Group
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, rupee digital currency, balances with RBI, balances with other banks
and money at call and short notice.
5.25 Segment Reporting
Group
The disclosure relating to segment information is made in accordance with AS-17: ‘Segment Reporting’ and relevant
guidelines issued by the RBI.
475
Financial statements
18. NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
1. Disclosures
1.1 ‘Provisions and contingencies’ recognised in the Profit and Loss Account comprise of:
(` in crores)
For the year ended 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Provision for income tax
- Current tax 8,160.63 7,783.67
- Deferred tax [(Refer note 18 (1.11)] 449.79 970.79
8,610.42 8,754.46
Provision for non-performing assets (including bad debts written off, net of write backs and 7,817.29 3,754.58
recoveries in written off accounts)1
Provision for restructured assets (0.80) (0.66)
Provision for Covid-19 restructuring & MSME restructuring (143.48) (279.35)
Provision towards standard assets 96.12 249.74
Provision for unhedged foreign currency exposures (54.74) 91.57
Provision for country risk 10.57 6.13
Additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan (38.44) 49.18
Provision for probable legal cases 527.55 12.56
Provision for other contingencies (47.72) 294.32
Total 16,776.77 12,932.53
1. includes provision for non-performing advances of `11,866.99 crores (previous year `6,676.16 crores) and write-back of provision
on non-performing investments of `222.51 crores (previous year provision of `142.07 crores), net of recoveries from written off
accounts of `3,827.19 crores (previous year `2,779.51 crores)
1.2 Capital instruments
a) Share Capital
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised equity capital other than
through allotment of equity shares to eligible employees upon exercise of options/units under its Employees
Stock Option/Unit Scheme. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the exercise of options/units,
the Bank raised `685.87 crores, consisting of share capital of `2.16 crores and share premium of `683.71 crores
(previous year `557.21 crores, consisting of share capital of `1.94 crores and share premium of `555.27 crores).
b) Other capital instruments
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank has not raised any non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-I/
Tier-II capital.
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank redeemed non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-II capital, the
details of which are set out below:
Instrument Capital Date of maturity Period Coupon Amount
Subordinated debt Tier-II 12 February, 2025 120 months 8.45% `850.00 crores
During the year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised or redeemed any non equity Basel III compliant
Tier-I/Tier-II capital.
1.3 Divergence in asset classification and provisioning
In terms of RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements. The disclosure
is required if either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for NPAs assessed
by RBI exceeds 5% of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period and (b) the
additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5% or 10% of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference
period ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023 respectively.
476 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Based on the above, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is required with
respect to RBI’s annual supervisory process for the year ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023.
1.4 Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’)
The details of EPS computation is set out below:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Basic and Diluted earnings for the year (Net profit after tax) (` in crores) 28,055.11 26,386.20
Basic weighted average no. of shares (in crores) 309.26 308.17
Add: Equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/units under ESOP/ 1.84 2.23
ESU scheme (in crores)
Diluted weighted average no. of shares (in crores) 311.10 310.40
Basic EPS (`) 90.72 85.62
Less: Effect of potential equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/ (0.54) (0.61)
units under ESOP/ESU scheme (`)
Diluted EPS (`) 90.18 85.01
Nominal value of shares (`) 2.00 2.00
Dilution of equity is on account of 18,432,380 stock options/units (previous year 22,287,930 stock options/units)
1.5 Employee Stock Options/Units
Over the period till 31 March 2025, pursuant to the approval of the shareholders the Bank has framed Employee
Stock Option Schemes for options aggregating 315,087,000 that vest in a graded manner over 3 to 4 years, subject
to vesting conditions. The options can be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Further, pursuant
to the approval of the shareholders in January 2023, the Bank also framed an Employee Stock Units (ESUs) Scheme
aggregating to 50,000,000 units that vest in a graded manner over 3 years, subject to vesting conditions. The ESUs
can be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Within the respective overall ceiling of options/units
the Bank is authorised to issue options/units to eligible employees and Whole Time Directors (including those of
subsidiary companies and Associate entity).
324,312,311 options and 2,704,077 ESUs have been granted under the Schemes till the previous year ended 31
March, 2024. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the approval of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, the Bank granted options/units (each option representing entitlement to one equity share of the Bank) to
eligible employees/directors of the Bank/subsidiary companies as set out below:
Date of grant Options/ESUs No. of options granted Grant price (` per option/unit)
25 April, 2024 Options 7,019,246 1,063.25
25 April, 2024 ESUs 2,408,870 2.00
11 July, 2024 Options 86,261 1,291.65
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below:
Weighted Weighted average
Options Range of exercise average remaining
outstanding prices (`) exercise contractual life
price (`) (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 52,199,448 469.90 to 929.80 712.34 4.27
Granted during the year 7,105,507 1,063.25 to 1,291.65 1066.02 -
Forfeited during the year (2,455,328) 469.90 to 1,063.25 820.58 -
Expired during the year (102,753) 469.90 to 757.10 654.80 -
Exercised during the year (10,393,527) 469.90 to 848.80 659.82 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 46,353,347 488.35 to 1,291.65 772.73 4.01
Exercisable at the end of the year 34,860,694 488.35 to 1,063.25 707.90 3.32
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,143.23.
477
Financial statements
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below:
Weighted Weighted average
Units average remaining
Exercise price (`)
outstanding exercise contractual life
price (`) (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,534,240 2.00 2.00 6.09
Granted during the year 2,408,870 2.00 2.00 -
Forfeited during the year (270,729) 2.00 2.00 -
Expired during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year (405,164) 2.00 2.00 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,267,217 2.00 2.00 5.75
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,057,224 2.00 2.00 4.63
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,146.05.
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below:
Weighted Weighted average
Options Range of exercise average remaining
outstanding prices (`) exercise contractual life
price (`) (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 51,107,688 433.10 to 804.80 653.48 4.37
Granted during the year 12,705,878 848.80 to 929.80 848.84 -
Forfeited during the year (1,829,116) 469.90 to 848.80 756.94 -
Expired during the year (82,360) 469.90 to 535.00 505.43 -
Exercised during the year (9,702,642) 433.10 to 848.80 574.29 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 52,199,448 469.90 to 929.80 712.34 4.27
Exercisable at the end of the year 37,480,122 469.90 to 929.80 678.79 3.46
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,003.21.
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below:
Weighted Weighted average
Units average remaining
Exercise price (`)
outstanding exercise contractual life
price (`) (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year - - - -
Granted during the year 2,704,077 2.00 2.00 -
Forfeited during the year (154,116) 2.00 2.00 -
Expired during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year (15,721) 2.00 2.00 -
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,534,240 2.00 2.00 6.09
Exercisable at the end of the year 749,823 2.00 2.00 4.98
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,044.23.
Fair Value Methodology
In line with RBI clarification on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/Chief Executive Officers/
Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff issued on 30 August, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method
for all share-linked instruments granted after 31 March, 2021 and consequently recognizes the fair value of options
computed using the Black-Scholes model, without reducing estimated forfeitures, as a compensation expense over the
vesting period. During the year, the Group recognised compensation cost of `430.53 crores (Previous year `519.57
crores) for options/units granted to employees of the Group.
478 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
The fair value of the options/units is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes options pricing model,
with the following assumptions:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
ESOP ESU ESOP ESU
Dividend yield 0.09% 0.09% 0.26% 0.26%
Expected life 2.95-5.95 years 1-3 years 2.95-5.95 years 1-3 years
Risk free interest rate 6.85% to 7.09% 6.95% to 7.06% 6.79% to 7.17% 6.94% to 7.12%
Volatility 24.00% to 29.15% 19.89% to 24.01% 29.90% to 38.27% 25.28% to 31.99%
Volatility is the measure of the amount by which a price has fluctuated or is expected to fluctuate during a period.
The measure of volatility used in the Black-Scholes options pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of
the continuously compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. For calculating volatility, the daily
volatility of the stock prices on the National Stock Exchange, over a period prior to the date of grant, corresponding
with the expected life of the options has been considered.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `358.68
(previous year `297.95).
The weighted average fair value of units granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `1,059.51 (previous
year: `842.45).
1.6 Proposed Dividend
The Board of Directors, in their meeting held on 24 April, 2025 have proposed a final dividend of `1 per equity share
amounting to `309.74 crores. The proposal is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In terms of revised Accounting Standard (AS) 4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance sheet date’
as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, such
proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability as on 31 March, 2025.
During the year, the Bank paid final dividend of `1 per equity share amounting `309.09 crores pertaining to the
previous year ended 31 March, 2024.
1.7 Segmental reporting
The business of the Group is divided into four segments: Treasury, Retail Banking, Corporate/Wholesale Banking and
Other Banking Business. These segments have been identified and based on the RBI’s revised guidelines on Segment
Reporting issued on 18 April 2007 vide Circular No. DBOD.No.BP.BC.81/21.04.018/2006-07. The principal activities
of these segments are as under.
Segment Principal Activities
Treasury Treasury operations include investments in sovereign and corporate debt, equity and mutual funds,
trading operations, derivative trading and foreign exchange operations on the proprietary account and
for customers. The Treasury segment also includes the central funding unit.
Retail Banking Constitutes lending to individuals/small businesses through the branch network and other delivery
channels subject to the orientation, nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum
thereof. Retail Banking activities also include liability products, card services, internet banking, mobile
banking, ATM services, depository, financial advisory services and NRI services.
Digital Banking (Sub- In accordance with RBI circular DOR.AUT.REC.12/22.01.001/2022-23 dated 7 April 2022 on
segment of Retail Banking) Establishment of Digital Banking Units, the Bank has presented ‘Digital Banking’ as a sub-segment of the
Retail Banking segment.
Corporate/Wholesale Includes corporate relationships not included under Retail Banking, corporate advisory services,
Banking placements and syndication, project appraisals, capital market related services and cash management
services.
Other Banking Business Includes para banking activities like third party product distribution and other banking transactions not
covered under any of the above three segments.
Unallocated assets and liabilities - All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment
479
Financial statements
such as deferred tax, tax paid in advance net of provision, provision for other contingencies towards potential
expected losses etc.
Business segments in respect of operations of the subsidiaries have been identified and reported taking into account
the customer profile, the nature of product and services and the organisation structure.
Revenues of the Treasury segment primarily consist of fees and gains or losses from trading operations and interest
income on the investment portfolio. The principal expenses of the segment consist of interest expense on funds
borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct
overheads and allocated expenses.
Revenues of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking segment consist of interest and fees earned on loans given to
customers falling under this segment and fees arising from transaction services and merchant banking activities such
as syndication and debenture trusteeship. Revenues of the Retail Banking segment are derived from interest earned on
loans classified under this segment, fees for banking and advisory services, ATM interchange fees and cards products.
Expenses of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking and Retail Banking segments primarily comprise interest expense on
deposits and funds borrowed from other internal segments, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating the
branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses.
Segment income includes earnings from external customers and from funds transferred to the other segments.
Segment result includes revenue as reduced by interest expense and operating expenses and provisions, if any, for that
segment. Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Inter segment interest income and interest
expense represent the transfer price received from and paid to the Central Funding Unit (CFU) respectively. For this
purpose, the funds transfer pricing mechanism presently followed by the Group, which is based on historical matched
maturity and internal benchmarks, has been used by the Group and relied upon by the Statutory Auditors. Operating
expenses other than those directly attributable to segments are allocated to the segments based on an activity-based
costing methodology. All activities in the Group are segregated segment-wise and allocated to the respective segment.
480 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
481
:woleb
tuo
tes
era
stluser
latnemgeS
)serorc
ni
`(
5202
,hcraM
13
gniknaB
liateR
rehtO
/etaroproC
latoT
detacollanU
gniknaB
liateR
latoT
liateR
rehtO
latigiD
elaselohW
yrusaerT
ssenisuB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
ssenisuB
ssenisuB
euneveR
tnemgeS
90.473,721
27.863
-
87.325,66
17.770,15
70.644,51
50.032,53
45.152,52
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
emocni
tseretni
ssorG
77.245,82
-
33.169,5
63.343,31
80.856,5
82.586,7
38.286,5
52.555,3
emocni
rehtO
68.619,551
27.863
33.169,5
41.768,97
97.537,65
53.131,32
88.219,04
97.608,82
tnuoccA
ssoL
dna
tiforP
rep sa emocni
latoT
75.678,67
-
-
14.388,46
04.496,35
10.981,11
19.744,8
52.545,3
emocni
tseretni
tnemges
retni
)ssel(/ddA
34.397,232
27.863
33.169,5
55.057,44,1
91.034,01,1
63.023,43
97.063,94
40.253,23
eunever
tnemges
latoT
13.630,17
-
-
67.158,84
49.536,93
28.512,9
73.507,1
81.974,02
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
esnepxe
tseretnI
:sseL
75.678,67
-
-
62.652,24
44.190,53
28.461,7
88.152,92
34.863,5
esnepxe
tseretni
tnemges
retnI
:sseL
40.299,93
-
45.958
23.826,23
91.774,22
31.151,01
17.210,6
74.194
sesnepxe
gnitarepO
:sseL
15.888,44
27.863
97.101,5
12.410,12
26.522,31
95.887,7
38.093,21
69.210,6
tiforp
gnitarepO
53.661,8
)66.82(
20.0
69.122,01
74.136,4
94.095,5
)92.448(
)86.281,1(
1srehto/stessa
gnimrofrep-non
rof noisivorP
:sseL
61.227,63
83.793
77.101,5
52.297,01
51.495,8
01.891,2
21.532,31
46.591,7
tluser
tnemgeS
24.016,8
xat
rof noisivorP
:sseL
47.111,82
sgninrae
dna
tseretni
ytironim
erofeb
tiforP
teN
etaicossA
morf
96.531
tseretnI
ytironiM
:sseL
60.97
etaicossA
ni
tiforP fo
erahS
:ddA
-
ssol/tiforp
yranidroartxE
11.550,82
tiforP
teN
16.269,656,1
42.988,6
87.422,3
80.135,566
25.208,735
65.827,721
45.483,544
79.239,535
stessa
tnemgeS
87.909,074,1
221.976,8
22.132
46.983,439
28.412,067
28.471,471
95.475,332
12.530,492
seitilibail
tnemgeS
38.250,681
)88.987,1(
65.399,2
)65.858,862(
)03.214,222(
)62.644,64(
59.908,112
67.798,142
stessa
teN
87.195,2
-
41.68
34.189,1
44.225,1
99.854
33.905
88.41
raey
eht
rof
erutidnepxe
latipaC
79.667,1
-
79.84
04.163,1
75.540,1
38.513
63.643
42.01
raey
eht
rof
stessa
dexif
no noitaicerpeD
noitaicerped
naht
rehto
smeti
hsac-non
lairetam
stneserper
.1
Financial statements
482 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
serorc
31.536`
fo
tseretni
ytironim
sedulcni
.2
)serorc
ni
`(
4202
,hcraM
13
gniknaB
liateR
rehtO
/etaroproC
latoT
detacollanU
gniknaB
liateR
latoT
liateR
rehtO
latigiD
elaselohW
yrusaerT
ssenisuB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
gniknaB
ssenisuB
ssenisuB
euneveR
tnemgeS
50.957,211
-
50.57
87.990,85
76.535,64
11.465,11
98.652,23
33.723,22
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
emocni
tseretni
ssorG
13.032,52
-
17.265,4
50.704,21
29.083,5
31.620,7
92.412,5
62.640,3
emocni
rehtO
63.989,731
-
67.736,4
38.605,07
95.619,15
42.095,81
81.174,73
95.373,52
tnuoccA
ssoL
dna
tiforP
rep sa emocni
latoT
74.858,86
-
-
85.195,45
10.560,74
75.625,7
68.519,8
30.153,5
emocni
tseretni
tnemges
retni
)ssel(/ddA
38.748,602
-
67.736,4
14.890,52,1
06.189,89
18.611,62
40.783,64
26.427,03
eunever
tnemges
latoT
47.093,16
-
)47.73(
56.193,04
94.101,43
61.092,6
61.340,2
76.399,81
)sremotsuc
lanretxe(
esnepxe
tseretnI
:sseL
74.858,86
-
-
84.832,73
02.387,13
82.554,5
03.505,62
96.411,5
esnepxe
tseretni
tnemges
retnI
:sseL
55.242,73
-
58.787
66.557,03
54.204,02
12.353,01
90.213,5
59.683
sesnepxe
gnitarepO
:sseL
70.653,93
-
56.788,3
26.217,61
64.496,21
61.810,4
94.625,21
13.922,6
tiforp
gnitarepO
70.871,4
-
)08.0(
22.966,5
39.377,2
92.598,2
)18.584,1(
)45.4(
1srehto/stessa
gnimrofrep-non
rof noisivorP
:sseL
00.871,53
-
54.888,3
04.340,11
35.029,9
78.221,1
03.210,41
58.332,6
tluser
tnemgeS
64.457,8
xat
rof noisivorP
:sseL
45.324,62
sgninrae
dna
tseretni
ytironim
erofeb
tiforP
teN
etaicossA
morf
50.601
tseretnI
ytironiM
:sseL
17.86
etaicossA
ni
tiforP fo
erahS
:ddA
-
ssol/tiforp
yranidroartxE
02.683,62
tiforP
teN
35.832,815,1
12.502,6
34.630,3
99.303,226
28.481,515
71.911,701
11.166,304
97.130,384
stessa
tnemgeS
05.901,263,1
263.797,6
55.432
49.119,838
05.299,317
44.919,42,1
93.465,722
62.106,882
seitilibail
tnemgeS
30.921,651
)51.295(
88.108,2
)59.706,612(
)86.708,891(
)72.008,71(
27.690,671
35.034,491
stessa
teN
46.062,2
)96.61(
37.65
38.147,1
60.214,1
77.923
33.364
44.51
raey
eht
rof
erutidnepxe
latipaC
64.883,1
)96.61(
74.53
25.570,1
80.678
44.991
17.482
54.9
raey
eht
rof
stessa
dexif
no noitaicerpeD
noitaicerped
naht
rehto
smeti
hsac-non
lairetam
stneserper
.1
serorc
44.994`
fo
tseretni
ytironim
sedulcni
.2
Consolidated financial statements
Geographic Segments
(` in crores)
Domestic International Total
31 March, 31 March, 31 March, 31 March, 31 March, 31 March,
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
Revenue 152,580.80 134,887.86 3,336.05 3,101.50 155,916.85 137,989.36
Assets 1,600,411.89 1,466,207.94 56,550.72 52,030.59 1,656,962.61 1,518,238.53
Capital expenditure for the year 2,585.29 2,260.15 6.49 0.49 2,591.78 2,260.64
Depreciation on fixed assets for 1,765.61 1,386.81 1.36 1.65 1,766.97 1,388.46
the year
1.8 Related party disclosure
The related parties of the Group are broadly classified as:
a) Promoters
The Bank has identified the following entities as its Promoters:
• Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI) (upto 17 July, 2023)
• Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)
b) Key Management Personnel
• Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry (MD & CEO)
• Mr. Rajiv Anand (Deputy Managing Director)
• Mr. Subrat Mohanty (Executive Director) (with effect from 17 August, 2023)
• Mr. Munish Sharda (Executive Director) (with effect from 27 February, 2024)
c) Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Ms. Preeti Chaudhry, Mr. Anagh Chaudhry, Mr. Aruj Chaudhry, Mr. Aryan Chaudhry, Ms. Rajul Parekh, Ms. Chhavi
Kharb, Mr. Ashok Kharb, Mr. Om Singh Chaudhry, Ms. Kusum Chaudhry, Ms. Gitanjali Anand, Ms. Tara Anand,
Ms. Nandita Anand, Mr. P.L. Narain, Mr. P. Srinivas, Ms. Ratna Rao Shekar, Ms. Charu Narain, Ms. K Ramalakshmi,
Ms. Smitha Mohanty, Mr. Agastya Mohanty, Mr. Rajat Mohanty, Mr. Neelima Mohanty, Mr. Narasingh
Mohanty, Ms. Gitashree Mohanty, Ms. Rima Sharda, Ms. Tanya Sharda, Ms. Shashi Sharda, Mr. Rakesh Sharda,
Ms. Monica Sharda.
d) Associate
• Axis Max Life Insurance Limited (formerly Max Life Insurance Company Limited)
Based on RBI guidelines, details of transactions with Promoter (Life Insurance Corporation of India) and Associate
(Axis Max Life Insurance Limited) are not disclosed since there is only one entity/party in the aforesaid categories.
483
Financial statements
The details of transactions of the Bank with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Relatives of Key
Key Management
Items/Related Party Management Total
Personnel
Personnel#
Dividend paid 0.06 -* 0.06
Interest paid 0.38 0.76 1.14
Interest received 0.01 -* 0.01
Investment of related party in the Bank 53.29 - 53.29
Remuneration paid 27.71 - 27.71
Contribution to employee benefit fund - - -
Advance granted (net) - 0.07 0.07
Advance repaid 0.77 - 0.77
Receiving of services - - -
Rendering of services 0.03 -* 0.03
Sale/ Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related party 0.14 -* 0.14
Other reimbursements to related party - - -
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group as on 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Relatives of Key
Key Management
Items/Related Party Management Total
Personnel
Personnel
Deposits with the Bank 8.81 14.43 23.24
Advances 0.19 0.15 0.34
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.12 -* 0.12
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group during the year ended 31 March,
2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Relatives of Key
Key Management
Items/Related Party Management Total
Personnel
Personnel
Deposits with the Bank 22.83 14.77 37.60
Advances 1.01 0.23 1.24
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.14 -* 0.14
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
484 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
The details of transactions of the Group with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Relatives of Key
Key Management
Items/Related Party Promoters Management Total
Personnel
Personnel#
Dividend paid 24.49 0.05 -* 24.54
Interest paid 399.71 0.23 0.47 400.41
Interest received -* 0.04 -* 0.04
Investment of related party in the Bank - 20.39 - 20.39
Redemption of Hybrid capital/Bonds of the Bank - - - -
Sale of investments - - - -
Remuneration paid - 17.77 - 17.77
Contribution to employee benefit fund 15.95 - - 15.95
Placement of deposits - - - -
Repayment of deposit - - - -
Advance granted (net) - - - -
Advance repaid - 0.42 - 0.42
Receiving of services 97.24 - - 97.24
Rendering of services 90.82 0.03 0.01 90.86
Sale/ Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from - 0.22 - 0.22
related party
Other reimbursements from related party - - - -
Other reimbursements to related party 1.14 - - 1.14
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group as on 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Relatives of Key
Key Management
Items/Related Party Management Total
Personnel
Personnel
Deposits with the Bank 7.63 8.63 16.26
Placement of security deposits - - -
Advances 0.98 0.06 1.04
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.14 -* 0.14
Non-funded commitments - -
Investment of related party in Hybrid capital/ Bonds of the Bank - - -
Other receivables (net) - - -
Other payables (net) - - -
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group during the year ended 31 March,
2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Relatives of Key
Key Management
Items/Related Party Management Total
Personnel
Personnel
Deposits with the Bank 14.09 9.12 23.21
Placement of security deposits - - -
Advances 1.34 0.07 1.41
Investment of related party in the Bank 0.14 -* 0.14
Investment in non-equity instrument of related party - - -
Non-funded commitments - - -
Investment of related party in Hybrid capital/Bonds of the Bank - - -
Other receivables (net) - - -
Other payables (net) - - -
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
485
Financial statements
The significant transactions between the Group and related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31
March, 2024 are given below. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a significant related party transaction
wherever it exceeds 10% of the aggregate value of all related party transactions in that category:
(` in crores)
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Dividend paid
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.06 0.05
Interest paid
Om Singh Chaudhry 0.34 0.32
Preeti Chaudhry 0.25 0.09
Mr. Subrat Mohanty 0.27 0.15
Interest received
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.01 0.04
Mr. Rakesh Sharda -* -
Investment of related party in the Bank
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 35.09 9.77
Mr. Rajiv Anand 13.97 10.62
Remuneration paid
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 9.80 9.10
Mr. Rajiv Anand 6.84 6.07
Mr. Subrat Mohanty 5.63 2.29
Mr. Munish Sharda 5.44 0.31
Rendering of services
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.03 0.01
Advance repaid
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.77 0.42
Advance granted (net)
Rakesh Sharda 0.07 -
Sale/ Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related party
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 0.04 0.10
Mr. Rajiv Anand 0.03 0.09
Mr. Subrat Mohanty 0.03 0.02
Mr. Munish Sharda 0.04 0.01
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
1.9 Leases
Disclosure in respect of assets taken on operating lease
This comprises of branches, office premises/ATMs, cash deposit machines, currency chests, staff quarters, office
and IT equipments.
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Future lease rentals payable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year 1,370.87 1,256.13
- Later than one year and not later than five years 4,367.42 3,934.11
- Later than five years 5,059.20 4,019.75
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 1,803.82 1,542.65
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.
The terms of renewal/purchase options and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements.
There are generally no undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
There are generally no undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
486 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Disclosure in respect of assets given on operating lease
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Gross carrying amount of premises at the end of the year 209.60 209.60
Accumulated depreciation at the end of the year 32.41 28.92
Total depreciation charged to profit and loss account for the year 3.49 3.49
Future lease rentals receivable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year 28.66 28.66
- Later than one year and not later than five years 81.14 92.56
- Later than five years 34.17 51.41
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.
1.10 Movement in fixed assets capitalized as application software and intangibles (included in other Fixed Assets)
• Movement of fixed assets capitalized as application software
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year 4,155.24 3,443.83
Additions during the year1 1,148.96 736.53
Deductions during the year (139.37) (25.12)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March (3,335.14) (2,789.09)
Closing balance as at 31 March 1,829.69 1,366.15
Depreciation charge for the year 677.99 527.23
1. includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation for assets denominated in foreign currency.
• Movement of fixed assets capitalized as intangibles and goodwill
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year 11,932.39 11,949.08
Additions during the year - -
Deductions during the year - (16.69)
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March 11,932.39 11,932.39
Closing balance as at 31 March - -
Amortisation charge for the year - (16.69)
1.11 The major components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities arising out of timing differences are as under:
(` in crores)
As at 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Deferred tax assets on account of provisions for loan losses / doubtful debts 3,629.94 3,949.80
Deferred tax assets on account of provision for employee benefits 147.45 71.11
Deferred tax assets on Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (FCTR) 189.90 148.95
Deferred tax assets on other items 1,950.03 1,950.24
Deferred tax assets 5,917.32 6,120.10
Deferred tax liabilities on account of depreciation on fixed assets 84.70 75.40
Deferred tax liability on creation of Special Reserve under Income Tax Act [Refer Schedule 2 863.88 606.92
(V)(A) of Consoldiated Balance Sheet]
Deferred tax liability on transition gain on MTM of Investments 115.62 -
Deferred tax liabilities on interest on income tax refund 90.97 -
Deferred tax liabilities on other items 147.53 2.81
Deferred tax liabilities 1,302.70 685.13
Net deferred tax asset 4,614.62 5,434.97
487
Financial statements
1.12 Employee Benefits
Group
Provident Fund
The contribution to the employee’s provident fund (including Employee Pension Scheme) of the Group amounted to
`460.67 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2025 (previous year `408.92 crores).
Axis Bank Ltd.
The rules of the Bank’s Provident Fund administered by a Trust require that if the Board of Trustees are unable to
pay interest at the rate declared for Employees’ Provident Fund by the Government under para 60 of the Employees’
Provident Fund Scheme, 1952 for the reason that the return on investment is less or for any other reason, then the
deficiency shall be made good by the Bank.
Based on an actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary, there is no deficiency in the Trust observed as
at the Balance Sheet date.
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Provident Fund benefit plan (including staff
deputed at subsidiaries).
Profit and Loss Account
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost 288.99 251.33
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation 324.38 297.90
Expected Return on Plan Assets (385.65) (344.84)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year 4.20 4.16
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition - -
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard – 15 57.07 42.78
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(I)] 288.99 251.33
Actual Return on Plan Assets 453.51 381.61
Balance Sheet
Details of provision for provident fund
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Fair Value of Plan Assets 5,178.59 4,519.51
Present Value of Funded Obligations (5,004.56) (4,402.55)
Net asset 174.03 116.96
Amount not recognized as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard – 15) (174.03) (116.96)
Net Asset/ (Liability) - -
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities - -
Assets - -
Net Asset/(Liability) - -
488 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation 4,402.55 3,933.75
Current Service Cost 288.99 251.33
Interest Cost 324.38 297.90
Actuarial Losses/(Gains) 72.06 40.93
Employees Contribution 479.87 442.48
Liability transferred from/to other companies (24.13) (118.31)
Benefits Paid (539.16) (445.53)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation 5,004.56 4,402.55
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Change in the Fair Value of Assets
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets 4,519.51 4,007.93
Expected Return on Plan Assets 385.65 344.84
Actuarial Gains/(Losses) 67.86 36.77
Employer contribution during the period 288.99 251.33
Employee contribution during the period 479.87 442.48
Assets transferred from/to other companies (24.13) (118.31)
Benefits Paid (539.16) (445.53)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets 5,178.59 4,519.51
Experience adjustments
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024 31 March, 2023 31 March, 2022 31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations 5,004.56 4,402.55 3,933.75 3,404.21 2,861.59
Plan Assets 5,178.59 4,519.51 4,007.93 3,538.64 2,861.59
Surplus/(Deficit) 174.03 116.96 74.18 134.43 -
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities 38.22 19.59 17.24 169.83 43.51
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets 67.86 36.77 (106.74) 270.73 (12.88)
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Government securities 53% 51%
Other debt instruments 11% 11%
Equity shares 13% 11%
Others 23% 27%
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Discount rate for the term of the obligation 6.80% 7.20%
Average historic yield on the investment portfolio 8.19% 8.34%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment portfolio 6.80% 7.20%
Expected investment return 8.19% 8.34%
Guaranteed rate of return 8.25% 8.25%
Superannuation
The Group contributed `15.07 crores (previous year `15.95 crores) to the superannuation plan for the year.
The Bank has also accrued `12.93 crores (previous year `16.09 crores) for the eligible employees who had moved to
the Bank as part of the Citibank India consumer business acquisition as they are entitled to receive a lumpsum corpus
amount under a separate Superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of 10 years as a defined contribution plan.
489
Financial statements
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
During the year, the Group has contributed `22.22 crores (previous year `15.54 crores) to the NPS for employees who
have opted for the scheme.
Leave Encashment
The liability of compensated absences of accumulated privileged leave of the employees of the Group, based on
actuarial valuation is given below.
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Total Expenses Assumptions
Liability - Privilege
included under Salary escalation
Leave Discount Rate
Schedule 16(I) rate
Axis Capital Ltd. 0.19 0.07 6.54% 7.83%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 6.38 2.57 6.59% 8.50%
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Total Expenses Assumptions
Liability - Privilege
included under Salary escalation
Leave Discount Rate
Schedule 16(I) rate
Axis Capital Ltd. 0.12 (0.34) 7.18% 4.23%
A.Treds Ltd. 0.52 0.16 7.25% 10.00%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 5.21 1.75 7.14% 8.00%
Group
Gratuity
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Gratuity benefit plan.
Profit and Loss Account
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost 119.82 94.24
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation 66.83 56.48
Expected Return on Plan Assets (52.69) (49.13)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year 16.39 80.67
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition - -
Past Service Cost - 2.26
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(1)] 150.35 184.52
Actual Return on Plan Assets 66.57 47.45
Balance Sheet
Details of provision for gratuity
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Present Value of Funded Obligations (1,000.67) (858.80)
Present Value of un-funded Obligations (9.03) (5.54)
Fair Value of Plan Assets 955.00 762.04
Unrecognised Past Service Cost - -
Net Asset/ (Liability) (54.70) (102.30)
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities 54.70 102.30
Assets - -
Net Asset/(Liability) (included under Schedule 11 Other Assets / (54.70) (102.30)
Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities)
490 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation 864.34 715.67
Current Service Cost 119.81 94.24
Interest Cost 66.83 56.48
Actuarial Losses/(Gains) 30.28 78.99
Past Service Cost - 2.26
Liabilities Assumed on Acquisition - -
Liabilities transferred in/(out) 0.45 (0.44)
Benefits Paid (72.01) (82.86)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation 1,009.70 864.34
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets 762.04 706.72
Expected Return on Plan Assets 52.69 49.13
Actuarial Gains/(Losses) 13.89 (1.68)
Contributions by Employer 197.68 90.33
Assets acquired on acquisition - -
Assets transferred out/ Divestment 0.54 (0.67)
Benefits Paid (71.84) (81.79)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets 955.00 762.04
Experience adjustments
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024 31 March, 2023 31 March, 2022 31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations 1,009.70 864.34 715.67 581.52 545.18
Plan Assets 955.00 762.04 706.72 585.56 528.33
Surplus/(Deficit) (54.70) (102.30) (8.95) 4.04 (16.85)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities (0.58) 17.34 5.20 29.03 (8.34)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets 13.88 (1.68) (19.11) 9.72 7.92
Axis Bank Ltd.
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Government securities 53% 42%
Bonds, debentures and other fixed income instruments 38% 30%
Money market instruments 3% 2%
Equity shares 4% 3%
Balance in bank & others 2% 23%
*includes plan assets under transfer pursuant to acquisition of Citibank India Consumer Business
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Discount Rate 6.80% 7.20%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets 7.00% 7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate 8.00% 8.00%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years) 24.00% 24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years) 14.00% 14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) 8.00% 8.00%
491
Financial statements
Axis Capital Ltd.
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 100.00% 100.00%
Insurer Managed Funds
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.54% 7.18%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets 6.54% 7.18%
Salary Escalation Rate 7.83% 4.23%
Employee Turnover 37.15% 18.75%
Axis Asset Management Company Ltd.
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 100.00% 100.00%
Insurer Managed Funds
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.70% 7.25%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets 7.00% 7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate 11.00% 11.00%
Employee Turnover 15.00% - 20.00% 15.00% - 20.00%
Axis Securities Ltd.
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 100.00% 100.00%
Insurer Managed Funds
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.55% 7.15%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets 7.00% 7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate 10.00% 8.50%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 44 (age in years) (managerial) 23.00% 25.00%
- 21 to 44 (age in years) (non managerial) 45.00% 45.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) (managerial) 17.00% 20.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) (non managerial) 18.00% 18.00%
Axis Finance Ltd.
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 100.00% 100.00%
Insurer Managed Funds
*composition of plan assets is not available
492 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.79% 7.21%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets 6.79% 7.21%
Salary Escalation Rate 7.00% 7.00%
Employee Turnover
- For service 2 years and below 29.00% 29.00%
- For service more than 2 years but upto 4 years 11.00% 11.00%
- For service above 4 years 2.00% 2.00%
Axis Trustee Services Ltd.
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.55% 7.16%.
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets N.A. N.A.
Salary Escalation Rate 10.00% 12.00%
Employee Turnover 20.00% 28.00%
A.Treds Ltd.
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 100.00% 100.00%
Insurer Managed Funds
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.75% 7.25%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets 7.00% 7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate 10.00% 10.00%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years) 24.00% 24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years) 14.00% 14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) 8.00% 8.00%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Limited
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.59% 7.14%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets N.A. N.A.
Salary Escalation Rate 8.50% 8.00%
Employee Turnover 30.00% 35.00%
Axis Pension Fund Management Limited
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate 6.70% 7.20%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets N.A. N.A.
Salary Escalation Rate 8.00% 8.00%
Employee Turnover 14.00% 14.00%
The estimates of future salary increases considered in acturial valuation take account of the inflation, seniority,
promotion and other relevant factors.
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on investments
of the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
493
Financial statements
As the contribution expected to be paid to the plan during the annual period beginning after the balance sheet date is
based on various internal/external factors, a best estimate of the contribution is not determinable.
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
Resettlement allowance
Profit and Loss account
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank made a provision of `0.21 crores (previous year `Nil) towards liability
in respect of resettlement allowance based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
Balance Sheet
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Current liability 0.46 0.54
Non current liability 3.24 2.95
Net Liability as per actuarial valuation (included under Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities) 3.70 3.49
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date:
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Discount Rate 6.80% 7.20%
Salary Escalation Rate 8.00% 8.00%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years) 24.00% 24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years) 14.00% 14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) 8.00% 8.00%
Provision towards probable impact on account of Code of Social Security 2020
The Group on a prudent basis as per internal policy, based on an actuarial valuation holds a provision of `385.05 crores
as on 31 March 2025 (`287.60 crores as on 31 March, 2024) towards the gratuity liability on account of probable
impact due to Code of Social Security 2020. This is over and above the provisions made in normal course based on
extant rules and as reported in the above disclosure.
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
1.13 Small and Micro Enterprises
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from 2 October, 2006,
certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. Following are the details
of delayed payments to MSMED registered vendors:
Axis Bank Ltd.
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Particulars
Principal Interest Principal Interest
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 11.94 0.01 12.05 0.00*
supplier
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, along with 3.07 0.02 4.37 0.03
the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the due date
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
payment (which have been paid but beyond the due date during the year) but
without adding the interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid N.A. 0.30 N.A. 0.29
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the N.A. 0.30 N.A. 0.29
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually
paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowed as a deductible
expenditure under Section 23
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
494 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
Subsidiaries
(` in crores)
Particulars 31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
The Principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier 4.12 2.99
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, along with the amount of - -
the payment made to the supplier beyond the due date
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which - -
have been paid but beyond the due date during the year) but without adding the interest
specified under MSMED Act, 2006
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid - -
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until - -
such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise, for the
purpose of disallowed as a deductible expenditure under Section 23
The above is based on the information available with the Group which has been relied upon by the auditors.
1.14 Provisions and contingencies
a) Movement in provision for frauds included under other liabilities is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 214.33 178.06
Additions during the year 56.88 54.72
Reductions on account of payments/reversals during the year (28.52) (18.45)
Closing balance at the end of the year 242.69 214.33
b) Other liabilities include provision for reward points made on actuarial basis, the movement of which
is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year 997.08 711.54
Provision made during the year 1,024.16 495.53
Reductions during the year (842.79) (209.99)
Closing provision at the end of the year 1,178.45 997.08
c) Movement in provision for other contingencies is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025 31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year 7,465.86 3,822.39
Reclassification from provision on standard advances1 - 3,130.18
Addition during the year2 930.86 804.04
Reductions during the year (507.17) (290.75)
Closing provision at the end of the year3 7,889.55 7,465.86
1. During the previous year ended 31 March, 2024, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared that COVID-19 is no
longer a public health emergency of international concern, hence the provision of `5,012 crores carried by the Bank towards
COVID-19 related risks is no longer required. Consequently, post approval of the Board of Directors, the Bank’s management
prudently elected to carry forward the aforesaid provision amount in its entirety, towards potential expected losses on certain
standard advances and / or exposures. The said amount was accordingly reclassified to provision for other contingencies and
disclosed as other liabilities under Schedule 5 of the Balance Sheet as on reporting date
2. Includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation
3. Closing provision includes provision for legal cases, additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan,
provision on AIF investments, provision for future expected losses and provision for other contingencies.
495
Financial statements
1.15 Disclosure required as per Ministry of Corporate Affairs notification dated 24 March, 2021
During the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, other than the transactions undertaken in the normal
course of banking business and in accordance with extant regulatory guidelines and Bank and its subsidiaries internal
policies, as applicable:
1. the Bank and its subsidiaries has not granted any advance/loans or investments or provided guarantee or
security to any other person(s) or entities with an understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise,
to further lend or invest on behalf of the Bank or provide guarantee or security or the like to any other person
identified by the Bank.
2. the Bank and its subsidiaries has not received any funds from any person(s) or entities with an understanding,
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall further lend or invest or provide guarantee or
security or the like in any other person on behalf of and identified by such person(s)/entities.
1.16 Expenses exceeding 1% of the total income
Details of items under other expenditure (Schedule 16 – Operating Expenses) exceeding 1% of total income of the
Group are given below:
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
Sr. No. Nature of Expense (` in crores)
1. Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA) 2,766.48
2. Charges paid to Network partners 1,629.80
3. Cashback charges 1,594.58
4. Charges paid for purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (excluding taxes) 1,483.53
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Sr. No. Nature of Expense (` in crores)
1. Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA) 2,143.16
2. Professional fees 2,022.52
3. Cashback charges 1,807.75
4. Business promotion expenses 1,654.16
5. Charges paid to Network partners 1,517.65
1.17 Additional information pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2025 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013) :
(` in crores)
Profit or (loss) for the year ended
Net assets as of 31 March, 2025
31 March, 2025
Name of the entity As % of As % of
Amount1 consolidated Amount1 consolidated
net assets2 profit or loss
Parent:
Axis Bank Limited 1,78,616.95 96.00% 26,373.48 94.01%
Subsidiaries:
Axis Capital Limited 1,153.10 0.62% 160.54 0.57%
Axis Trustee Services Limited 107.12 0.06% 21.55 0.08%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited 1.73 0.00%* 0.57 0.00%
Axis Asset Management Company Limited 2,361.17 1.27% 500.68 1.78%
Axis UK Limited 4.38 0.00%* 0.34 0.00%
Axis Finance Limited 5,363.83 2.88% 676.14 2.41%
Axis Securities Limited 1,887.32 1.01% 418.78 1.49%
496 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
(` in crores)
Profit or (loss) for the year ended
Net assets as of 31 March, 2025
31 March, 2025
Name of the entity As % of As % of
Amount1 consolidated Amount1 consolidated
net assets2 profit or loss
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited 349.38 0.19% (42.29) (0.15%)
Freecharge Business and Technology Services Limited 38.39 0.02% (1.61) (0.01%)
A.Treds Limited 72.40 0.04% 37.62 0.13%
Step down Subsidiaries:
Axis Pension Fund Management Limited 58.25 0.03% (3.86) (0.01%)
Axis Capital USA LLC 5.09 0.00% 0.12 0.00%
Minority Interest 635.13 0.34% (135.69) (0.48%)
Associate:
Axis Max Life Insurance Company Limited - - 79.06 0.28%
* less than 0.005%
1. Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
2. Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2024 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the
Companies Act, 2013) :
(` in crores)
Profit or (loss) for the year ended
Net assets as of 31 March, 2024
31 March, 2024
Name of the entity As % of As % of
Amount1 consolidated Amount1 consolidated
net assets2 profit or loss
Parent:
Axis Bank Limited 150,235.00 96.22% 24,861.43 94.22%
Subsidiaries:
Axis Capital Limited 992.56 0.64% 150.42 0.57%
Axis Trustee Services Limited 99.82 0.06% 24.66 0.09%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited 1.16 0.00%* 0.17 0.00%*
Axis Asset Management Company Limited 1,860.50 1.19% 414.04 1.57%
Axis Bank UK Limited 469.14 0.30% 10.26 0.04%
Axis Finance Limited 4,103.53 2.63% 610.37 2.31%
Axis Securities Limited 1,218.54 0.78% 300.96 1.14%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited 391.67 0.25% 78.86 0.30%
A.Treds Limited 34.77 0.02% 17.81 0.07%
Step down Subsidiaries:
Axis Pension Fund Management Limited 62.11 0.04% (6.41) (0.02%)
Axis Capital USA LLC 4.85 0.00% 0.12 0.00%
Minority Interest (499.44) (0.32%) (106.05) (0.40%)
Associate:
Max Life Insurance Company Limited - - 68.71 0.26%
* less than 0.005%
1. Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
2. Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
1.18 Description of contingent liabilities
a) Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
These represent claims filed against the Group in the normal course of business relating to various legal cases
currently in progress. These also include demands raised by tax authorities and other statutory authorities which
are disputed by the Group. The Group holds provision of `904.76 crores as on 31 March, 2025 (previous year
`372.60 crores) towards claims assessed as probable.
497
Financial statements
b) Liability for partly paid investments
This represents amounts remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
c) Liability on account of forward exchange contracts
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, including non-deliverable forward (NDF) contracts on its
own account and on OTC for customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign
currency at a future date at the contracted rate. A non-deliverable forward contract is a currency derivatives
contract to exchange cash flows between the contracted forward exchange rate and prevailing spot rates.
The amount of contingent liability represents the notional principal of respective forward exchange contracts.
With respect to the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting
transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions,
and hence a large value of gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
d) Liability on account of derivative contracts
The Group enters into derivative contracts in the form of currency options/swaps, exchange traded currency
options, non-deliverable derivatives and interest rate/ currency futures on its own account and on OTC for
customers. Currency swaps are commitments between two counterparties to exchange streams of interest
payments and/or principal amounts in different currencies on specified dates over the duration of the swap at a
pre-agreed exchange rate. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash
flows. Interest rate futures are standardised, exchange-traded contracts that represent a pledge to undertake a
certain interest rate transaction at a specified price, on a specified future date. Forward rate agreements (FRA)
are financial contracts between two counterparties, in which a buyer will pay or receive, on the settlement
date, the difference between a pre-determined fixed rate (FRA rate) and a reference interest rate, applied on a
notional principal amount, for a specified forward period. A foreign currency option is an agreement between
two parties in which one grants to the other the right to buy or sell a specified amount of currency at a specific
price within a specified time period or at a specified future time. An Exchange Traded Currency Option contract
is a standardised foreign exchange derivative contract, which gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation,
to exchange money denominated in one currency into another currency at a pre-agreed exchange rate on a
specified date on the date of expiry. A non-deliverable option contract is a currency derivatives contract that
offers the right, but not the obligation to either purchase or sell a currency against another currency and the
contract is settled at the difference between the contracted exchange rate and prevailing spot rate on the expiry
date. Currency Futures contract is a standardised, exchange-traded contract, to buy or sell a certain underlying
currency at a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The amount of contingent liability represents the
notional principal of respective derivative contracts. With respect to the transactions entered into with its
customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in
generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional principal of
the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
e) Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
As a part of its banking activities, the Bank issues guarantees on behalf of its customers to enhance their credit
standing. Guarantees represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the
customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations. These are stated net of cash margin held with
the Bank as on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet.
f) Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
These include documentary credit issued by the Bank on behalf of its customers and bills drawn by the Bank’s
customers that are accepted or endorsed by the Bank. These are stated net of cash margin held with the Bank
as on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet.
498 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated financial statements
g) Other items for which the Group is contingently liable
Other items represent outstanding amount of bills rediscounted by the Bank, estimated amount of contracts
remaining to be executed on capital account, notional principal on account of outstanding Tom/ Spot foreign
exchange contracts, contracts for purchase of investments where settlement is due post balance sheet date, deed
of indemnity issued to liquidator of overseas subsidiary, contingent liability relating to undertakings issued towards
settlements under resolution plan in respect of non-performing assets, commitments towards underwriting and
investment in equity through bids under Initial Public Offering (IPO) of corporates, commitment for investment
in Associate entity and the amount transferred to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF).
The Group has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for
material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Group has reviewed and recorded adequate provision as required
under any law/accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative
contracts) in the books of account and disclosed the same under the relevant notes in the financial statements,
where applicable.
2. Previous year figures have been regrouped and reclassified, where necessary to conform to current year’s presentation.
In terms of our report attached. For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP N. S. Vishwanathan
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672 Chairman
Chartered Accountants
Sanjay Khemani Girish Paranjpe Rajiv Anand Amitabh Chaudhry
Partner Director Deputy Managing Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership No.: 044577
For KKC & Associates LLP Pranam Wahi Meena Ganesh Mini Ipe
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Director Director Director
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Gautam Shah Sandeep Poddar Puneet Sharma S. Mahendra Dev
Partner Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Director
Membership No.: 117348
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai
499
Financial statements
500 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
1-COA
mroF
4102
,seluR
)stnuoccA(
seinapmoC
eht
fo
5
elur
htiw
daer
921
noitceS
fo
)3( noitceS-buS
ot
osivorp
tsrif
ot tnausrup
tnemetatS
serutnev
tnioj/seinapmoc
etaicossa/seiraidisbus
fo
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
fo
serutaef
tneilas
gniniatnoc
tnemetatS
seiraidisbuS
:”A“ traP
5202
hcraM
ts13
dedne
raey
eht roF/no sA
)serorc
ni
`(
egrahceerF
sixA
noisneP
sixA
latipaC
sixA
egrahceerF
KU
knaB
sixA
tessA
sixA
sixA
dna
ssenisuB
sixA
sixA
lautuM
sixA
dnuF
CLL
ASU
tnemyaP
sderT.A
.dtL
tnemeganaM
eetsurT
ygolonhceT
seitiruceS
ecnaniF
dnuF
latipaC
tnemeganaM
etoN
refeR(
seigolonhceT
.dtL
etoN
refeR(
ynapmoC
secivreS
secivreS
.dtL
.dtL
eetsurT
.dtL
.dtL
)b
.dtL
etavirP
)a
.dtL
.dtL
detimiL
.dtL
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
,rebotcO
6
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
saw yraidisbus
nehw ecnis etad ehT
7102
deriuqca
.A.N
DSU
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
DSU
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
sa etar egnahcxE
dna
ycnerruc gnitropeR
=
1
$SU(
=
1 $SU(
laicnaniF tnaveler
eht fo etad tsal eht no
)574.58`
)574.58`
seiraidisbus
ngierof
fo esac eht ni raey
00.08
30.6
00.04
07.367,1
00.56
38.051
75.396
72.4
11.012
50.0
05.1
05.37
latipac erahS
)57.12(
)39.0(
)16.1(
)23.414,1(
93.7
94.637,1
62.076,4
01.0
60.151,2
96.1
26.501
06.970,1
sulprus & sevreseR
19.16
63.5
84.83
09.924
31.401
43.117,7
51.977,93
14.31
58.345,2
59.1
98.231
85.903,2
stnemtsevnI
+ stessA
dexiF( stessa latoT )stessA rehtO +
66.3
72.0
90.0
25.08
47.13
20.428,5
23.514,43
40.9
86.281
12.0
77.52
84.651,1
+ sgniworroB
+ stisopeD(
seitilibail latoT
)snoisivorP
+ seitilibaiL rehtO
77.55
04.4
79.7
17.3
-
64.06
28.915,1
-
42.452,2
85.1
60.9
26.527
stnemtsevnI
92.01
23.2
69.1
00.213
16.19
20.656,1
74.692,4
35.21
50.692,1
62.2
59.06
74.377
)emocnI
latoT( revonruT
)68.3(
21.0
)79.1(
)27.55(
45.04
85.365
28.809
43.0
51.176
57.0
21.13
30.152
noitaxat
erofeb )ssoL(/tiforP
-
-
)63.0(
)34.31(
29.2
08.441
86.232
-
74.071
81.0
75.9
94.09
noitaxat rof noisivorP
)68.3(
21.0
)16.1(
)92.24(
26.73
87.814
41.676
43.0
86.005
75.0
55.12
45.061
noitaxat
retfa )ssoL(/tiforP
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
00.51
-
gnidulcni(
xaT dna
dnediviD desoporP
)c etoN
refeR( )noereht ssec
%72.74
%001
%001
%001
%76
%001
%001
%001
%57
%57
%001
%001
gnidloherahs fo %
eht
fo
taht
sa
etad
gnitroper
emas
eht
ot
pu
nward
neeb
evah
seiraidisbus
nwod
pets
dna
seiraidisbus
evoba
eht
fo
stnemetats
laicnanif
detiduanu/detidua
ehT
.5202
,hcraM
13 .e.i ,knaB :setoN
etad
eht
no
gniliaverp
setar
no
desab
RNI
ni
detroper
smeti
ssol
dna
tiforP
.)5202
,hcraM
13
no
sa
574.58`
= 1$(
DSU
fo
tnelaviuqe
RNI
ni
detats
era smeti
ytilibaiL/tessA
.a
.snoitcasnart
fo
DSU
fo
tnelaviuqe
RNI
ni
detats
era
smeti
ytilibaiL/tessA
,).dtL
knaB
sixA
fo
yraidisbus
denwo
yllohw
a(
.dtL
latipaC
sixA
fo
yraidisbus
denwo
yllohw
a si CLL
ASU
latipaC sixA .b
.5202
hcraM
13
dedne
raey
laicnanif
gnirud
etar
egareva
fo
tnelaviuqe
RNI
ni
detats
era
smeti
ssol
dna
tiforP.)5202
,hcraM
13 no
sa 574.58`
= 1$(
hguorht
sriaffA
etaroproC
fo
yrtsiniM
eht
yb
deifiton
sa
’etad
teehs
ecnalaB
eht
retfa
gnirrucco
stnevE
dna
seicnegnitnoC‘
4 )SA(
dradnatS
gnitnuoccA
desiver
fo smret nI .c
seiraidisbus
eht
yb
ytilibail
a sa
desingocer
neeb
ton
sah
dnedivid
desoporp
,6102
,hcraM
03
detad
,6102
,seluR
tnemdnemA
)sdradnatS
gnitnuoccA(
seinapmoC
ot
tnemdnema
.5202
,hcraM
13 no sa
liN
:snoitarepo
ecnemmoc
ot
tey
era
hcihw
seiraidisbus
fo semaN .1
liN
:raey
eht
gnirud
dlos
ro
detadiuqil
neeb
evah
hcihw
seiraidisbus
fo semaN .2
Consolidated financial statements
Part “B”: Associates
(` in crores)
Max Life Insurance
Name of Associates
Company Ltd.
1. Latest audited Balance Sheet Date 31 December, 2024
2. Date on which the Associate was associated or acquired 6 April, 2021
3. Shares of Associate held by Axis Bank Group at March 31, 2025
Number of equity shares 392,024,831
Amount of Investment in Associate 2,367.35
Extent of Holding % 19.02%
4. Description of how there is significant influence Note 3
5. Reason why the Associate is not consolidated N.A.
6. Net Worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet 5,922.57
7. Profit/(Loss) for the year
Considered in Consolidation 79.06
Not considered in Consolidation 336.60
Note:
1. Names of Associate which is yet to commence operations: Nil
2. Names of Associate which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Nil
3. As per Accounting Standard 23 issued by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), Axis Group is deemed to have
significant influence through its voting power and representation on the Board of directors of the investee company.
Part “C”: Joint Ventures - Not applicable
501
Financial statements
Basel III Disclosures
As at 31 March, 2025
In accordance with RBI guidelines, banks are required to make Pillar 3 disclosures including leverage ratio and liquidity
coverage ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) under the Basel III framework. The Bank has made these disclosures
which are available on its website at the following link:
http://www.axisbank.com/investor-corner/baselIII-disclosures.aspx
Notes
Registered office: Corporate office:
'Trishul', 3rd Floor, Axis Bank Limited, Axis House,
Opp. Samartheshwar Temple, Pandurang Budhkar Marg,
Law Garden, Ellisbridge, Worli, Mumbai – 400 025.
Ahmedabad – 380 006
Tel. No.: 022–2425 2525
Tel. No.: 079–6630 6161 Fax No.: 022–2425 1800
Email: shareholders@axisbank.com

INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25

Inside this report
Reporting context
4	
About the report
Welcome to Axis Bank
10	
About Axis Bank
12	 Integrated business lines
14	
Chairman’s statement
16	
Strategic pillars
18	
Advancing our ESG agenda
20	 Presence
22	 Milestones
24	
Ownership structure
26 
Operating landscape
30 Marketing Initiatives
40	 Board of directors
41	
Core management team
Value creation by the bank
44 Value creation model
48	 Stakeholder engagement
58	 Materiality assessment
Business performance review
70	 MD & CEO’s statement 
76	
External environment  
84 Strategy in action
88	 Key performance indicators  
92	 Message from the management – Retail banking  
96	
Business segment performance – Retail banking  
102	 Message from the management – Wholesale banking 
104	 Business segment performance – Wholesale banking  
108 ‘One Axis’ in action 
116 Message from the management – Operations 
and transformation
Har raah dil se open   
120	 For customers
 
120 Banking beyond transactions 
 
126 Banking in the Digital–first era  
	
130	 Bharat banking 
134	 For employees  
146	 For investors 
152 For communities  
160	 For partners – Government  
164	 For the environment
Governance
178	 Corporate governance 
186	 Risk management 
192	 Cyber security and data privacy  
196	 Thought leadership and policy advocacy 
202	Interplay of capitals
204	Awards & recognitions
Statutory reports  	
	
	
	
	
	
206	 Board’s report 
234	 Management’s discussion and analysis 
277	 Corporate governance 
324	 Business responsibility and sustainability report
Financial statements
325	 Independent auditor’s report – Standalone 
financial statements
332 Standalone financial statements
431	 Independent auditor’s report – Consolidated 
financial statements
442 Consolidated financial statements
500	 Form AOC–1
502	 Basel III disclosures
Pg. 14
Promoting enduring 
value for our 
stakeholders
“Our balance sheet 
remains a fortress, 
backed by best–in–class 
asset quality metrics.”
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent 
Director and 
Part–time Chairman
To know more 
about us explore 
axisbank.com 

Pg. 108
‘One Axis’ in action
One platform, infinite financial journeys
Pg. 126
Banking in the digital–first era
Innovating with a  
digital–first approach
Pg. 76
External environment
Navigating a shifting 
world order
Pg. 192
Cyber security and data privacy
Safeguarding customer confidence with 
uncompromising security
‘One Axis’
Many 
Possibilities
1

At Axis Bank, ‘Har raah dil se open’ is a commitment 
we stand by, and carry forward every day. It is 
there in the quiet determination of our 104,000+ 
dil se open bankers, responsible and responsive, 
who take financial services to the remotest corners 
of the country. They represent our deeply human 
approach to banking — embodying our ethos of 
serving with empathy, integrity, and the willingness 
to listen and adapt. Whether it comes to serving 
a first–time borrower in a far–flung hamlet or 
supporting a digitally well–versed urban customer, 
our teams approach every road with their minds 
open to explore every possibility to deliver on 
expectations. With every interaction, collaboration 
and innovation, we ensure that banking remains 
inclusive, accessible and meaningful. In a world of 
rapid change, our openness fuels progress — not 
just for the Bank, but for every life we touch.
For customers 
We listen with empathy and serve 
with integrity, bringing inclusive 
banking to every doorstep.
Read more pg. 120
For employees 
We empower our people to 
grow with purpose in a culture 
that values care, learning, and 
leadership.
Read more pg. 134
2
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25

For communities 
We stand with communities, 
enabling livelihoods, inclusion, 
and dignity through focused 
social impact.
Read more pg. 152
For partners  
We support national priorities 
through collaborations that spark 
innovation and drive shared 
success, aligning our strengths  
to drive inclusive development.
Read more pg. 160
For the environment 
We embed sustainability into 
our investment decisions and 
operations to protect natural capital 
and enable climate resilience.
Read more pg. 164
For investors 
We create long–term 
value through transparent 
governance and responsible, 
future–ready growth.
Read more pg. 146
3

Reporting Context
ABOUT THE REPORT
Approach to reporting
Our second Integrated Annual 
Report for fiscal 2025 reflects our 
untiring commitment to transparency, 
innovation, and value creation which 
is open to new possibilities, open to 
customer aspirations, and open to 
sustainable progress.
Reporting Principles and 
Framework
This Integrated Annual Report 
has been prepared in accordance 
with the International Integrated 
Reporting Council <IR> Framework 
and SEBI’s guidelines on Integrated 
Reporting and seeks to provide an 
accurate and balanced insight into 
the Bank’s financial and non–financial 
performance, aligning with our 
strategic vision and long–term value 
creation approach.
This report articulates the 
Bank’s continued commitment to 
integrating Environmental, Social, 
and Governance (ESG) imperatives 
into its core business operations. 
It offers a structured and in–depth 
account of the Bank’s strategic 
priorities, governance architecture, 
risk management frameworks, and 
value creation processes. Through 
comprehensive and transparent 
disclosures, the Bank seeks to inform 
stakeholders of its long–term vision, 
operational integrity, and dedication 
to sustainable and responsible 
growth, which is in line with reporting 
guidelines and frameworks as set out 
by regulators.
	»
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
	»
Companies Act, 2013, and amendments thereto
	»
Guidelines issued by other regulators as applicable
	»
Integrated Reporting Framework <IR> developed 
by International Integrated Reporting Council 
(IIRC)
	»
SEBI Guidelines on Integrated Reporting
	»
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949
	»
Regulations, circulars, and guidelines issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
	»
Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 
of the Companies Act, 2013 
	»
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, and Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021
	»
SEBI’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting (BRSR) framework
	»
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
	»
Task Force on Climate–related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) framework
	»
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) 
Financial Statements 
Sustainability Reporting 
Statutory Reports
Integrated Reporting
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
4

About the report
Materiality and Scope
Our reporting is guided by our 
Materiality Assessment, which identifies 
key economic, environmental, social, 
and governance–related factors that 
impact our ability to create and sustain 
value in the short, medium and long 
term. We prioritise issues based on 
stakeholder expectations, business 
impact, and regulatory standards through 
a structured materiality assessment, 
aligning with <IR>, GRI, TCFD, and 
BRSR frameworks. This approach 
ensures transparent, relevant, and 
forward–looking disclosures, enabling 
stakeholders to make informed decisions 
while reinforcing our commitment to 
responsible banking and the creation of 
long–term value.
Reporting Period 
This Integrated Annual Report presents 
the standalone performance of the Bank 
for the twelve months from  
April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025, unless 
stated otherwise. It also captures key 
external factors, stakeholder insights, 
and strategic responses to emerging 
opportunities and risks. 
	»
Strengthen risk management 
and governance by considering 
both opportunities and 
challenges holistically.
	»
Empower and engage our people, 
nurturing a future–ready workforce 
through continuous learning, 
inclusivity, and a culture of 
performance and purpose.
	»
Invest in robust infrastructure and 
digital ecosystems, enabling secure, 
scalable, and accessible banking 
solutions across urban  
and rural India.
Our Integrated Reporting Universe 
seamlessly connects these elements, 
ensuring that every decision we 
make is open to growth, innovation, 
and sustainability.
Our Open Approach to Integrated 
Reporting
Integrated Thinking at Decision 
Making
Integrated thinking is at the core of 
creating, sustaining, and enhancing 
value for all stakeholders. It drives our 
strategic decision–making by ensuring 
a holistic, interconnected approach 
that aligns financial success with 
sustainable impact.
By embedding integrated thinking, 
we break silos and foster synergies 
across six key capitals–Financial, 
Manufactured, Social and Relationship, 
Intellectual, Human and Natural.  
This approach enables us to:
	»
Enhance long–term value creation 
by integrating financial performance 
with ESG commitments.
	»
Align business strategy with 
stakeholder priorities through 
proactive engagement 
and responsiveness.
	»
Leverage innovation and digital 
transformation to drive  
operational excellence and  
customer–centric solutions.
Reporting Boundary 
This report aligns with the principles 
of the Integrated Reporting 
<IR> Framework and presents 
an interconnected view of the 
Bank’s financial and non–financial 
performance. The boundaries include:
Integrated Reporting Boundary
Our Operating Context
Stakeholder Engagement
Our Strategy
Governance
Our Business Model and Impact 
on the Six Capitals
Guiding Principles 
Our Integrated Report is based 
on key guiding principles of 
the Integrated Reporting 
Framework, which ensure 
transparency, connectivity, and 
value creation for stakeholders.
Stakeholder Relationships
Connectivity of Information
Materiality Orientation
Conciseness
Reliability and Completeness
Strategic Focus and Future 
Orientation
Consistency and Comparability
Financial Reporting Boundary
Alignment with the financial 
statements and statutory 
reporting requirements
No significant changes in the 
organisation type, ownership, or 
reporting boundaries have occurred 
during the reporting period. 
The previous year figures have been 
regrouped and reclassified, where 
necessary, to conform to current  
year’s presentation ensuring 
comparability and continuity in 
measurement methods, timeframes, 
and disclosures.
5

Reporting Context
Assurance
	»
The standalone and consolidated 
financial statements in this 
report have been independently 
audited by:
	
−M/s. M M Nissim & Co LLP, 
Chartered Accountants  
(FRN 107122W/W100672)
	
−M/s. KKC & Associates LLP, 
Chartered Accountants  
(FRN 105146W/W100621)
	»
SGS India Private Ltd. (SGS India) 
has externally assured the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report (BRSR) Core. The said 
Assurance Statement is available 
on our website as part of the BRSR. 
‘Reasonable Assurance’ is provided 
for the BRSR Core.
Feedback
We value your feedback that would 
enable us to disclose relevant 
information in an effective and 
transparent manner. Please write to 
us at shareholders@axisbank.com
Our Material Issues
Forward–Looking Statement 
This report includes certain  
forward–looking statements based on 
current expectations, market trends, and 
strategic assumptions. These statements 
are subject to risks, uncertainties, and 
external factors, which may cause 
actual results to differ materially from 
projections. Axis Bank is not obligated to 
update these statements unless required 
to do so by law. 
Approval by the Board of Directors
	»
The Bank acknowledges the 
integrity of the information 
provided in this Integrated Annual 
Report and believes that the 
report is a fair and balanced view 
of the Bank’s performance and 
prospects within the Integrated 
Reporting Framework. 
	»
The Board is informed that the 
report aligns with the Integrated 
Reporting Framework and 
acknowledges that the information 
provided in the Report has been 
reviewed and approved by the 
respective business units and 
top management.
Our Integrated Reporting Process 
Our Integrated Report follows a structured and transparent preparation process to ensure accuracy, relevance, and 
alignment with global best practices: 
A dedicated reporting 
team oversees the 
process, incorporating 
both internal and 
external feedback to 
enhance the quality of 
the report.
Senior management 
and the Board provide 
oversight, ensuring the 
report aligns with the 
Bank’s strategic vision 
and stakeholder  
expectations.
Materiality assessment 
and risk management 
frameworks guide 
the identification 
of key themes 
and disclosures.
Data and insights 
are sourced 
through leadership 
interviews, 
internal reporting 
mechanisms, and 
regulatory guidelines.
M1 	 Regulatory Compliance
M2 	 Corporate Governance & Ethical Business Conduct
M3 	 Risk Management
M4  Fraud & Money Laundering – Prevention, 
Detection & Mitigation
M5 	 Privacy and Data Security
M6  Customer Experience & Satisfaction
M7  Innovation and Digitalisation
M8 	 Impact of Climate Change
M9 	 Financial Inclusion, Literacy & Access
M10 	 Community Engagement & Development
M11 	 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
M12 	 Sustainable Finance & Responsible Banking
M13 	 Employee Engagement, Development & Wellbeing
M14 	 Policy Advocacy and Thought leadership
M15 	 Return on Equity and Return to Shareholders
6
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25

About the report
Financial Capital 
Our financial resilience drives growth, supports responsible 
lending, and fosters customer–centric initiatives, ensuring 
sustainable profitability and long–term value creation. 
Human Capital 
We invest in nurturing 
talent, fostering 
inclusivity, and 
empowering employees 
to build a future–ready 
workforce driven by 
collaboration, agility, 
and excellence.
Manufactured Capital
Our vast branch 
network, digital banking 
ecosystem, and  
omni–channel platforms 
offer a convenient, 
secure and accessible 
banking experience 
anytime, anywhere. 
Natural Capital
We are committed 
to building a greener, 
more resilient financial 
ecosystem through green 
financing, responsible 
resource management, 
and climate action.
Intellectual Capital
From AI–powered banking to data–driven insights, 
we harness technology, automation, and intellectual 
expertise to enhance efficiency, security, and 
customer experience–staying ahead in the digital era.
Social & Relationship Capital
We foster financial inclusion, 
community engagement, 
meaningful partnerships, 
and strengthening trust 
with customers, investors, 
regulators, and society.
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
Our Capitals
Six interconnected capitals 
shape our approach to 
value creation and define 
our unique approach to 
banking–one that is ‘open’ to 
possibilities, partnerships,  
and progress
Our Stakeholders
Rating Agencies
Value Chain Partners
Industry and Peers
Regulators and Policymakers
Community & NGOs
Shareholders & Investors
Customers
Employees
7

Welcome 
to Axis 
Bank
8
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25

At Axis Bank, we combine our strong legacy with  
forward–thinking innovation to deliver meaningful banking 
experiences across a rapidly evolving India. Our mission is 
to be a customer–first, future–ready institution that builds 
financial resilience across society. With a strong presence 
across retail, corporate, rural and international banking, we 
aim to transform lives, power entrepreneurship, and advance 
inclusive growth. Our values — Customer Centricity, Ethics, 
Ownership, Transparency, and Teamwork — shape every 
interaction and decision.
9

Welcome to Axis Bank
ABOUT A XIS BANK
Opening 
the path to 
collective 
progress
The Bank is committed  
to delivering open,  
inclusive and  
future–ready banking.  
Our diversified and 
integrated model 
combines financial 
strength, innovation 
and trust to empower 
every stakeholder on 
the path to progress. As 
‘One Axis’, we serve our 
customers across India, 
guided by a singular 
purpose – to serve every 
need on every path, with 
sincerity and intent.
Vision
To be the preferred 
financial services 
provider excelling 
in customer service 
delivery through insight, 
empowered employees, 
and smart use of 
technology
Purpose
Banking that leads to 
a more inclusive and 
equitable economy,  
a thriving community,  
and a healthier planet
Mission
To be the preferred financial solutions provider across the 
country, delivering customer delight by:
Providing 
innovative 
and intuitive 
banking solutions 
A combination 
of organisational 
agility, digital 
capabilities and 
physical reach
Adopting sustainable 
banking practices, 
particularly 
around ESG and 
climate change
Backed by 5 values
Customer 
Centricity
Ethics
Ownership
Transparency
Teamwork
Integrated Business Lines
Retail Banking
Wholesale and 
Commercial Banking
Offerings through 
‘One Axis’
Welcome to Axis Bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
10

About Axis Bank
Our Purpose Drives our Actions
We leverage our 
digital leadership to 
serve the unbanked 
and underbanked 
population in the 
country, helping them 
enter the formal  
financial mainstream
We continue to 
create platforms 
for mutual growth, 
which give us 
constant support 
from our value 
chain partners
We have 
committed 
to significant 
investments 
in sectors that 
create positive 
environmental and 
social impacts
We aim to improve 
the socio–economic 
condition and  
wellbeing for  
communities across  
India, and help 
create new, often 
unprecedented 
opportunities for 
economic progress 
for them
2
1
3
4
5
We strive to 
create an inclusive 
and diverse work 
environment 
that promotes 
the overall 
wellbeing of our 
employees while 
providing them 
opportunities to 
grow professionally
Sustainability is deeply ingrained in our organisational philosophy as we move 
forward in the three core areas of our GPS strategy.
Strengthening the Core
Building a strong balance sheet
Building next generation 
technology architecture
Organisation–wide 
transformation projects  
to accelerate our  
GPS journey
Deepening a  
Performance–driven Culture
Advancing the growth trajectory  
of business segments
Improving profitability metrics
Fostering a winning mindset
Building for the Future
Digital continues to be an 
area of relentless focus
Bank–wide programs to 
build distinctiveness
ESG has 
Bank–wide sponsorship
Core Areas  
of our GPS 
Strategy
11

Retail Banking
Our retail banking franchise continues to deepen its 
connection with individuals, small businesses, and 
Bharat Banking customers by offering a broad spectrum 
of personalised solutions through digital banking and  
a robust physical network across India.
Products and Services
	»
Savings and term deposits
	»
Credit and debit cards 
	»
Retail loans
	»
Bill payment and forex services
	»
Wealth management
	»
Third–party distribution: Insurance, mutual funds, 
government bonds
*Includes deposits and assets under advice
Read more pg. 96
Axis Bank’s integrated 
business lines offer a 
comprehensive suite 
of customised financial 
solutions to individuals, 
businesses, and institutions 
across India. This unified 
approach leverages 
digital innovation, domain 
expertise, and a strong 
physical presence to 
holistically serve customers 
through every stage of their 
financial journey.
Y–o–Y Performance Highlights
8% 
 
Retail term deposits
7% 
 
Retail loan book
16% 
Burgundy Private AUM*
Integrated Business Lines
Welcome to Axis Bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
12

Wholesale and 
Commercial Banking
We continue to serve Indian corporates and 
MSMEs by leveraging our domain expertise, 
transaction banking capabilities, and 
commitment to digital innovation.  
Our relationship–led model is built to deliver 
customised financial solutions at every stage  
of business growth.
Products and Services
	»
Corporate and SME loans
	»
Term deposits and Payments
	»
Trade finance, Letters of Credit, 
and Guarantees
	»
Foreign exchange and Derivatives 
	»
Cash Management services
	»
Commercial Cards
Offerings through 
‘One Axis’
‘One Axis’ brings together our full range of 
offerings across our business segments and 
subsidiaries, delivering comprehensive and 
seamless financial solutions. This integrated 
approach allows us to serve customers 
holistically — across life stages, business needs, 
and aspirations.
Products and Services
	»
Investments and broking
	»
Asset management and insurance
	»
MSME digital invoice discounting platform 
	»
Trustee services and payments
Y–o–Y Performance Highlights
8% 
 
Corporate Loans
10% 
 
Mid–Corporate loan book
14% 
 
SME loan book
Performance Highlights
J3,812 crores   
Total investment in subsidiaries 
(as on March 31, 2025)
J10,650 crores  
Combined net worth of domestic 
subsidiaries (28% y–o–y growth as  
on March 31, 2025)
J1,768 crores   
Combined PAT of operating subsidiaries 
(11% y–o–y growth for fiscal 2025)
Read more pg. 104
Read more pg. 108
Integrated business lines
‘One Axis’
Many 
Possibilities
13

CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Promoting enduring value 
for our stakeholders
Welcome to Axis Bank
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director and 
Part–time Chairman
Dear Shareholders,
It is with great pride and optimism that 
I present to you Axis Bank’s Integrated 
Annual Report for the financial 
year 2024–25. This year has been a 
year of steady progress, thoughtful 
transformation, and continued focus 
on building a resilient and future–
ready institution. Underpinning our 
journey has been a strong commitment 
to sound governance and robust 
compliance frameworks–ensuring that 
our growth is not only sustainable but 
also responsible.
The global economy is in flux as the 
U.S. undertakes structural shifts 
in trade, taxation, and regulation 
to address domestic imbalances. 
According to the IMF, the global 
economy appears to be entering 
a period of transition, as the  
long–standing economic framework of 
the past 80 years undergoes a reset.  
A key element has been the imposition 
of tariffs, particularly targeting China, 
which has disrupted global supply 
chains and increased costs. While some 
tariffs have been partially rolled back, 
uncertainty around future trade rules 
continues to delay investments and 
tighten financial conditions. Currency 
volatility and geopolitical tensions 
further weigh on global growth. 
Reflecting this uncertainty, the IMF 
has revised its global growth forecast 
for 2025 downward by 0.5% to 2.8%. 
However, coordinated fiscal action 
in Europe and China, or resolution 
of major conflicts, could help restore 
confidence and economic momentum.
India’s moderated growth in fiscal 2025 
reflected a period of prudent fiscal 
and monetary consolidation. With the 
temporary effects of election–related 
spending pauses now behind us and a 
more measured fiscal easing anticipated 
in fiscal 2026, government expenditure 
is poised to return to a more normalised 
and growth–supportive trajectory, 
setting the stage for a renewed 
momentum. On the monetary front, 
recent RBI actions—CRR cuts, bond 
purchases, and liquidity easing—are 
restoring credit flow and supporting 
growth. Inflation below 4% has shifted 
policy focus squarely to expansion. 
India remains resilient to global shocks, 
with strong services exports, rising 
competitiveness in manufacturing, 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
14

Chairman’s statement
and gains from the “China + 1” strategy. 
These structural strengths position 
India for a robust and broad–based 
economic rebound.
We delivered a consolidated RoA of 
1.77% and RoE of 16.89% in fiscal 
2025 and our focus on high RAROC 
businesses continues to drive healthy 
growth across our focus segment of 
Small Business Banking, SME, and Mid–
Corporate, growing 14% y–o–y and 
now forming ~23% of our loan book, 
up ~740 bps in four years. Our balance 
sheet remains strong, backed by best–
in–class asset quality metrics with net 
NPA at 0.33% and ₹11,957 crores in 
non–NPA provisions. With a CET–1 
ratio of 14.67%, up 93 bps y–o–y 
largely through organic accretion, we 
are well–capitalised to invest in future 
growth. Prudent risk management, 
disciplined execution, and strong 
internal accruals continue to  
position us well to deliver,  
high–quality performance.
Our customer obsession program, 
Sparsh 2.0 is a bold step forward–
seamlessly connecting our people–
first initiatives to elevate customer 
experiences, driving stronger Net 
Promoter Score, and unlocking 
meaningful business growth through 
empathy and excellence.
We’re proud to share that Axis Bank 
has once again been rated in the 
top–tier “Leadership” category in 
the Indian Corporate Governance 
Scorecard (December 2024) by 
IiAS. This recognition reflects our 
unwavering commitment to corporate 
governance and regulatory excellence. 
The evaluation, based on globally 
benchmarked G20/OECD principles, 
reaffirms our industry leadership and 
dedication to the highest standards of 
accountability and transparency.
At Axis Bank, our philosophy is 
anchored in sustainable growth 
and creating long–term value for our 
customers and stakeholders. In recent 
years, we have made substantial 
strides in reinforcing our governance 
architecture and strengthened over 
risk, audit, and compliance functions. 
Our steadfast commitment to 
excellence in corporate governance is 
reflected in the rigorous standards we 
uphold and the comprehensive policies 
we implement across every dimension 
of our operations.
At Axis Bank, ESG is deeply embedded 
in our strategic vision, with dedicated 
structures driving focused action. In 
2021, we became the first Indian bank 
to establish a standalone Board–level 
ESG Committee, aligning diverse 
priorities under a unified ESG agenda. 
This Committee met four times in 
fiscal 2025, reviewing progress and 
guiding new initiatives. Our ESG 
commitments are aligned with the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals and 
India’s Paris Agreement commitments. 
We exceeded our ₹30,000 crores 
sustainable wholesale lending target 
well ahead of the 2026 deadline, 
consequently, we raised our target 
to ₹60,000 crores by 2030, with 
₹48,412 crores already achieved by 
March 31, 2025. We continue to 
maintain an exposure to coal and 
thermal power well within our glide 
path limits. Additionally, as part of our 
commitment to achieving 30% women 
representation in our workforce by 
fiscal 2027, we are actively scaling up 
diverse hiring across all businesses and 
support functions, while launching 
innovative initiatives that truly reflect 
our organisational values.
As a responsible corporate citizen, 
we continue to drive meaningful 
impact through our CSR arm, Axis 
Bank Foundation (ABF), and strategic 
partnerships. Since 2018, ABF has been 
relentlessly driving ‘Mission 2 Million’ 
to uplift 2 million households across 
India. By fiscal 2025, ABF not only met 
but surpassed this goal—impacting 
~2.05 million participants across 
300 districts in 32 states and union 
territories as of March 31, 2025.  
In this fiscal alone, we reached  
~0.39 million participants nationwide. 
Moreover, we amplified our impact in 
the Education theme—expanding Axis 
DilSe® to new remote frontiers, forging 
powerful partnerships to strengthen 
education systems, and backing 
cutting–edge research and innovation. 
Each achievement is a step toward a 
greater vision—one where opportunity, 
equity, and sustainability are accessible 
to all. The Bank’s journey is far from 
over, and its commitment to creating 
lasting impact has never been stronger. 
Guided by the ‘open’ philosophy, we 
will continue to push boundaries, 
scale impact, and build a future where 
inclusive growth and sustainability go 
hand in hand.
As we look ahead, I would like to take 
a moment to acknowledge Mr. Rajiv 
Anand, who will be retiring in August 
2025 after an exceptional 16–year 
journey with Axis Group. His visionary 
leadership has been instrumental in 
shaping our digital and innovative 
solutions–led franchise. We thank him 
for his invaluable contributions and 
lasting impact on the Bank’s growth 
and culture.
Warm regards, 
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director and  
Part–time Chairman
15

STR ATEGIC PILL ARS
Anchored to a sound 
strategic framework
‘One Axis’ in 
Action
Redefining 
Banking in the 
Digital–first Era
At the core of our distinctiveness lies 
the ‘One Axis’ ecosystem — a unified 
platform serving diverse business 
needs. By integrating products and 
expertise across segments, we deliver 
tailored, innovative solutions that 
enhance customer experience. This 
collective strength drives purposeful 
growth, deepens relationships, 
and contributes to broader 
economic progress.
Our digital–first approach, led by 
innovations like ‘open’ and ‘neo’,  
is reshaping banking into a seamless, 
customer–centric experience.  
From instant onboarding to intuitive 
lending, we are driving strong digital 
engagement through continuous 
innovation and convenience. 
Multilingual and WhatsApp banking 
features extend our reach, making 
banking more inclusive, accessible, 
and boundaryless.
S1
S2
Welcome to Axis Bank
Our strategic pillars 
serve as the foundation 
for sustained growth, 
innovation, and 
stakeholder value 
creation. Anchored in 
customer centricity and 
digital excellence, they 
guide our journey towards 
building a stronger,  
future–ready institution.
‘One Axis’ in Action  
pg. 108
Linked to ‘Banking in the  
Digital-first Era’ section in 
Customer segment in ‘Har raah 
dil se open’ – Stakeholder–based  
Value Creation 
pg. 126
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
16

Strategic Pillars
Enabling Access, 
Driving Inclusion
Partnering in 
Nation–building
Making a Difference 
to the Life of Every 
Stakeholder
Embracing the 
Green Way
Bharat Banking is central to our strategy of empowering 
rural and semi–urban India through tailored financial 
solutions. By expanding our reach, building strategic 
alliances, and leveraging digital innovations, we are making 
banking more accessible and impactful. With a strong focus 
on risk management and sustainable growth, we are  
driving financial inclusion and supporting broader  
socio–economic progress.
We further our commitment to nation–building through 
strategic partnerships with government bodies at all levels. 
By strengthening public finance, infrastructure, and service 
delivery, we enable seamless tax collections, Direct Benefit 
Transfers, Smart City initiatives, and Digital Agriculture 
solutions. The Bank’s work across healthcare, education, 
transport, and social welfare activities drives efficient, 
transparent, and citizen–focused governance that supports 
India’s long–term growth and transformation.
We are guided by a purpose to build thriving communities 
by addressing the needs of all stakeholders — customers, 
employees, investors, partners, and society at large.  
With a focus on customer wellbeing, employee growth, 
inclusive culture, and sustainable value creation, we foster 
trust, innovation, and long–term relationships. By aligning 
our efforts with stakeholder interests, we aim to create 
a resilient, collaborative ecosystem that drives collective 
progress and shared prosperity.
Our commitment to sustainable banking has positioned us 
as a catalyst for environmental welfare within the sector 
and beyond. By embedding green practices — from energy 
procurement and emissions monitoring to eco–friendly 
infrastructure — we drive meaningful impact and reduce 
our footprint. Through bold initiatives like Mission 2 Million 
(now upgraded to planting 8 million trees by 2030) Trees 
and innovative conservation efforts, we are setting new 
benchmarks in corporate sustainability and advancing  
our ESG goals.
S3
S4
S5
S6
Strategic pillars
Linked to Bharat Banking in Customer 
segment ‘Har raah dil se open’ – 
Stakeholder–based Value Creation 
pg. 130
Linked to For Partners – Government 
pg. 160
Linked to Customer, Employees, Investors, 
Communities in ‘Har raah dil se open’ – 
Stakeholder–based Value Creation 
pgs. 120-163
Linked to Environment segment  
‘Har raah dil se open’ – Stakeholder–
based Value Creation 
pg. 164
17

As a responsible financial 
institution, we recognise the 
urgency of climate action and 
are committed to being part of 
the solution. Our climate action 
plan is future–focused — aimed 
at reducing risk, enabling green 
growth, and building long–term 
resilience across our operations. 
In fiscal 2025, we deepened 
this commitment by actively 
contributing to national and global 
climate and development goals, 
aligning our actions with the UN 
SDGs and India’s Paris Agreement 
commitments as outlined in the 
updated Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs). Under the 
guidance of our ESG Committee, 
we continued to channel capital 
towards promoting inclusive 
growth while accelerating the 
transition to a low–carbon and 
climate–resilient economy.
Our ESG–aligned 
Commitments
Introduced in 2021, our  
ESG–aligned commitments are 
central to how we do business 
today. We actively design financial 
solutions that serve the dual 
purpose of enabling growth and 
driving impact. Whether through 
sustainable financing, 
inclusive banking, or climate–aligned 
products, we continuously adapt to 
meet stakeholder interests, regulatory 
imperatives, and global sustainability 
standards. Regular updates to our 
Board’s ESG Committee ensure 
sustained oversight and accountability 
as we work towards a greener, 
fairer future.
ADVANCING OUR ESG AGENDA
Our action plan for  
a greener tomorrow
Material Issues Linkage
M2
M8
M10
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
At Axis Bank, value creation 
is rooted in sustainable 
growth that benefits all 
stakeholders. Guided by our 
openness to dialogue, our 
responsibility, and the impact 
we create, our ESG strategy 
is anchored in strong  
governance and shaped by  
stakeholder priorities. 
Welcome to Axis Bank
Key Issues Addressed by 
the Bank’s Climate 
Action Plan
	»
Expanding environmental and 
social risk assessment of our 
overall portfolio
	»
Scaling up climate risk 
assessment at the enterprise 
level through climate stress 
testing and scenario analysis
	»
Reducing our operational 
carbon footprint
	»
Scaling up our environmental 
initiatives under CSR, 
supporting climate 
adaptation, mitigation, 
and resilience
	»
Scaling up our lending to 
positive impact sectors 
(Wholesale & Retail)
	»
Scaling down our exposure  
to carbon–intensive sectors
Welcome to Axis Bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
18

Advancing our ESG agenda
Progress to ESG–aligned goals
Our Commitment
Unit
Capital Impacted
Progress as of 
March 2023
Progress as of 
March 2024
Progress as of 
March 2025
Incremental financing of 
₹30,000 crores under Wholesale 
Banking to sectors with positive 
social and environmental outcomes 
by fiscal 2026
Cumulative 
Exposure
₹20,400 
crores
₹30,409 
crores 
(Target 
achieved)
Incremental financing of ₹60,000 
crores under Wholesale Banking 
to sectors with positive social and 
environmental outcomes, by fiscal 
2030 from fiscal 2021
Cumulative 
Exposure
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
₹48,412 Cr. 
(Sanctioned)
Making 5% of our Retail  
Two–wheeler (2W) loan portfolio  
electric by fiscal 2024
EV% as a 
share of the 
TW loan 
portfolio
2.52%
3.62%
Increasing share of electric vehicle 
revenue (₹) in Two–wheeler  
loan portfolio – 6% by fiscal 2027** 
Increasing share of electric vehicle 
revenue (₹) in Four–wheeler (4W) 
passenger loan portfolio  
– 4% by fiscal 2027**
Penetration in 
financial year
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
7.14% 
penetration for 
two–wheeler 
2.92% 
penetration for 
four–wheeler
Scaling down exposure to  
carbon–intensive sectors,  
including coal and thermal power
Progress on 
Glide Path
Exposure 
below  
fiscal 2023  
targeted cap
Exposure 
below  
fiscal 2024  
targeted cap
Exposure  
below  
fiscal 2025  
targeted cap
Reaching 30% women's 
representation in our workforce  
by fiscal 2027
Overall 
diversity ratio
25.7%
25.0%
27.7%
Planting 2 million trees by fiscal 
2027 across India as part of our 
contribution to creating a  
carbon sink#
Saplings 
planted
~0.83 million 
saplings 
planted
~1.33 million 
saplings 
planted
~3.27 million 
trees planted
(including target 
of 2 million tree 
plantations, 
Miyawaki 
plantations 
and other tree 
plantation 
programs)
(Target 
achieved)
 Represents new commitments made during the year 
** Penetration target for each fiscal year in 4W and 2W segments respectively 
# Target of planting 2 million trees has  been upgraded during March 2025 to planting 8 million trees by 2030
19

Physical Reach
Our branch network spans 
5,879 locations and 3,194 cities, 
strategically covering urban, rural 
and semi–urban (RuSu) India. In fiscal 
2025, we added 500 new branches. 
This calibrated expansion supports 
our Bharat Banking strategy, with 
RuSu branches operating on an 
asset–led liability model and Platinum 
branches serving Small Banking 
Business (SBB) customers. 
PRESENCE
Facilitating banking, 
anytime, anywhere
Our extensive network 
of branches and ATMs 
spans India’s metros to its 
distant corners. Through 
a calibrated expansion 
strategy and strong 
presence in rural and  
semi–urban India, 
we continue to serve 
individuals, MSMEs, 
farmers, corporates 
and entrepreneurs with 
customised, locally relevant 
financial solutions.
Welcome to Axis Bank
Internationally, our offices in Singapore, 
Dubai (DIFC) and GIFT City, along 
with representative offices in the UAE 
(Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah) and 
Bangladesh (Dhaka), enable us to serve 
global Indian businesses and NRIs 
with seamless, borderless banking. 
We continue to bring banking closer 
to communities, businesses, and 
aspirations–across India and beyond.
Capital Linkage
Material Issues Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Reach
3,194   
Cities served 
(previous year: 2,963)
692
Districts covered
89% 
Districts in India covered by the 
Bank’s branch and correspondent 
network
Scale
5,879   
Domestic branches including 
extension counters and  
3 digital banking units 
(previous year: 5,380)
152   
Specialised branches
13,941 
ATMs and cash deposit/
withdrawal machines
234  
Business correspondence 
banking outlets
M6
M7
M9
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
20

Presence
Phygital Engagement  
Our virtual engagement channels 
make banking personalised, proactive, 
and frictionless, bridging online ease 
with human empathy. We have made 
it our mission to remain ‘open’ through 
physical branches and every screen, 
tap and conversation.
WhatsApp Banking
D191 crores 
Fixed deposits booked 
via WhatsApp in  
fiscal 2025
40 
Product journeys  
now entirely digitised
With over 30 million registered 
users, WhatsApp has become a key 
touchpoint in our digital journey.  
Fully integrated with Axis Aha! Our 
chatbot platform supports fixed 
deposit bookings, card services, loan 
requests; Real–time transactions and 
balance checks; Smart Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQ) handling 
powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI).
8  
Axis Virtual Centres 
(AVCs) nationwide
1,700 
Virtual Relationship 
Managers
~106 million 
Aha! Conversations  
in fiscal 2025
Digital Banking
Our digital banking ecosystem delivers real–time, seamless, and secure 
financial experiences to millions. With significant investments in technology 
and innovation, we are bringing end–to–end banking solutions to customers’ 
fingertips–reducing turnaround time and enhancing efficiency for both 
individuals and businesses.
Branch Profile
Designed for India
	»
RuSu branches: Asset–light models to serve bottomless rural India
	»
Platinum branches: Focused on Small Banking Business (SBB) customers
	»
Inclusive infrastructure: Tailored for older people, women, and customers 
with disabilities
~3 crores
Registered customer base for 
mobile banking
~15 million 
Non Axis Bank customers using 
Axis Mobile & Axis Pay apps
250+ 
DIY services available on the 
mobile application
₹25.7 trillion   
Mobile banking spends 
 20% y–o–y
71%
Mobile banking customers banking 
only on mobile application
4.8
Rating of mobile application on 
Apple app store
4.7
Rating of mobile application on 
Google play store
8.7 billion 
Mobile banking transactions 
 36% y–o–y
Region–wise Distribution
Geography–wise Distribution
30%
33%
23%
23%
29%
21%
18%
23%
Metro
North
Urban
South
Semi–urban
East
Rural
West
21

Welcome to Axis Bank
MILESTONES
Moments that shaped our journey
Our story is inextricably linked to India’s transformation. From our early beginnings, 
when we began operations as UTI Bank Ltd. in April 1994—among the first private 
sector banks set up under the 1993 RBI guidelines, issued in line with the government’s 
policy on financial sector reforms—to becoming one of the country’s largest private 
banks, our journey reflects a spirit of resilience, innovation, and openness.
2002
Crossed 100 branches
2003
Launched ‘Corporate iConnect’, 
an internet banking facility for 
corporate customers
2004
7,000+ ATM access enabled via 
shared networks
2005
Listed on London Stock Exchange,  
raised $257.03 million through 
Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs)
1994
Incorporated as 
UTI Bank
1999
	»
Oversubscribed IPO;  
over 1 lakh retail investors
	»
Launched website:  
www.utibank.com
1997
Deposits cross 
₹1,000 crores
1995
First branch in 
Ahmedabad inaugurated 
by Dr. Manmohan Singh, 
Union Finance Minister
1990s
2000s
2008
Renamed as Axis Bank 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
22

Milestones
2024
	»
Celebrated the 
opening of our 
5,000th branch 
in Ahmedabad
	»
The 4th largest 
credit card issuer 
in India
2020
Raised ₹12,500 crores 
via one of the largest 
private QIPs
2010
Shikha Sharma was appointed 
MD & CEO
2011
	»
Acquired Enam Securities’ 
investment banking 
and equity capital 
market business  
	»
Launched online trading 
platform, Axis Direct 
2013
Opened 10,000th ATM
2015
First all–women branch 
in Patna 
2017
Issued Asia’s first certified 
Green Bond ($500 mn)
2018
Opened IFSC Banking Unit 
at GIFT City 
2019
Amitabh Chaudhry 
appointed MD & CEO 
2010s
2020s
A Decade of  
Acceleration
The Bank redefined 
scale, inclusion, and 
innovation in this 
decade. From strategic 
acquisitions to  
ESG–first bonds,  
every step reflects  
our commitment to  
‘Har raah dil se open’.
2021
Strategic partnership 
with Max Life Insurance 
2022
	»
Announced 
#ComeAsYouAre, a 
charter of policies 
for employees and 
customers from the 
LGBTQIA+ community
	»
Raised $600 million 
through India’s first  
ESG–compliant 
Sustainable AT1 Bond
2023
Completed acquisition 
of Citibank India’s 
Consumer Business
2025
Migration of 
2 million+ 
Citibank India 
consumers to Axis 
Bank systems
Axis Bank unveils 
‘Har raah dil se 
open’ showcasing 
the power of 
100k+ dil se 
open bankers
The years in the milestone section represent the respective financial year ending on March 31
23

OWNERSHIP STRUC TURE
A resilient foundation  
laid with trust
Welcome to Axis Bank
Our ownership structure exhibits 
the trust of Institutional investors, 
mutual funds, retail, and domestic 
Institutional shareholders.  
This broad–based shareholding 
enables independent governance 
and sustained value creation while 
upholding the highest standards of 
transparency and stewardship.
Our subsidiaries operate as 
strong strategic levers, enabling 
us to provide a comprehensive 
suite of services across lending, 
wealth management, investments, 
insurance, and digital distribution.
Foreign Institutional  
Investors
42.48
Life Insurance 
Corporation of India
Our well–balanced 
ownership structure and 
strategic business mix 
set us apart. Through our 
subsidiaries, platforms, and 
partnerships, we cater to 
the financial needs of our 
diverse customer base.
3.33
GDR’s
39.52
Indian 
Institutions
6.76 
Others
7.91
Under the ‘One Axis’ approach, 
we deliver an integrated customer 
experience across the financial 
lifecycle. The Bank and its subsidiaries 
collaborate seamlessly to  
cross–leverage their strengths,  
offering bundled solutions from 
banking to equity broking, mutual 
funds, insurance, advisory services, 
and corporate financing. 
As of March 31, 2025, the Bank’s total 
paid–up equity share capital stood at 
₹619.47 crores, comprising ₹309.74 
crores fully paid equity shares of 
₹2 each.
Shareholding Pattern (As on March 31, 2025)	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   (%)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
24

‘One Axis’ Ecosystem
The Bank’s subsidiary portfolio 
reflects the strength of our universal 
banking model. It offers diversified 
financial solutions catering to the 
entire customer spectrum, from large 
corporations and MSMEs to retail 
investors and deposit holders.  
Each subsidiary plays a specialised  
role while remaining strategically 
aligned to the ‘One Axis’ philosophy.
Ownership structure
1. Position as on March 31, 2025 and including stakes owned by Axis Capital and Axis Securities
2. Effective stake held by Axis Group in step down subsidiary 
Above are figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
Ownership of Key Subsidiaries and Associate (as on March 31, 2025)
Subsidiary/Associate
Axis Bank Holding (%)
Core Business Segment
Fiscal 2025 Highlights
Market Positioning
Axis Finance Ltd.
100%
Consumer–focused  
Non–Banking Finance 
(NBFC)
₹676 crores PAT;  
 11% y–o–y
AAA rated NBFC with 
diversified product 
offerings
Axis Securities Ltd.
100%
Retail Brokerage  
₹419 crores PAT;  
 39% y–o–y
3rd largest  
bank–led brokerage firm
Axis Capital Ltd.
100%
Investment Banking
₹161 crores PAT;  
 7% y–o–y
Leadership position in ECM 
deals segment
Axis Asset Management 
Company Ltd.
75%
Mutual Fund & PMS
₹501 crores PAT;  
 21% y–o–y
One of the fastest growing 
MF player
Axis Trustee Services Ltd.
100%
 Trustee Services
Assets under custody at  
₹47,447 billion
 22% y–o–y
Amongst the leading trustees 
in India
Axis Max Life Insurance Ltd. 
(Associate)
19.02%1
Life Insurance
~₹79.06 crores share 
of PAT
4th largest private insurance 
company
Axis Pension Fund 
Management Ltd.
47% 2
Assets Management 
 303% y–o–y
Registered AUM
against industry
 51% y–o–y
Leading Pension Fund
Freecharge Payment 
Technologies Private Ltd.
100%
Fintech Platform
Freecharge Payment 
Gateway (FCPG) GMV 
 108% y–o–y
One of the major fintech 
players in India
A.TReDS Ltd.
67%
TReDS (discounting) 
Platform
14 lakh+ Invoices 
discounted 
Leading player on TReDs 
platform
Strategic Synergies under ‘One Axis’
Cross–sell across the Bank’s 
5,000+ branches and 
digital channels
End–to–end journeys enabled 
through API integrations and 
common CRM platforms
Focus on profitability, customer 
stickiness, and product 
bouquet deepening
Integrated offerings spanning 
investments, protection, lending, 
and advisory
25

With a diversified model, strong capital base, and deep digital integration, we continue to grow responsibly, 
strengthen profitability, and deepen customer engagement.
OPER ATING L ANDSC APE
Staying ahead in 
a dynamically 
evolving 
environment
Welcome to Axis Bank
The Bank operates in a dynamic business 
environment, competing with large private 
and public sector banks, nimble digital 
challengers, and non–banking  
financial institutions. We remain 
differentiated through scale, discipline,  
and purpose–led innovation in this  
fast–moving ecosystem.
Positioned for Progress in a Dynamic Environment
Fiscal 2025 unfolded against a backdrop of subdued 
global momentum. Advanced economies grappled 
with persistent inflation, high interest rates, and tight 
liquidity, prompting cautious capital deployment and 
slower credit expansion. The swift escalation of trade 
tensions and extremely high levels of policy uncertainty 
are expected to have a significant impact on global 
economic activity, posing new headwinds for global 
growth and inflation. Global growth is projected to 
drop to 3% in 2026, financial markets remain sensitive 
to geopolitical tensions, supply chain disruptions, and 
diverging monetary policies.
The Bank remains strongly positioned to navigate this 
evolving environment. With a well–diversified credit 
portfolio, robust liability engine, and 96%+ digital 
transaction penetration, the Bank is focused on delivering 
sustainable, risk–aware growth. Through the ‘One Axis’ 
ecosystem, the Bank integrates banking with insurance, 
investments, broking, and capital markets, serving 
customers across geographies and segments. Our calibrated 
approach to compliance, technology, and  
customer–centricity keeps opportunities open for us across 
every economic cycle.
Fiscal 2025 marked a significant regulatory pivot toward 
risk sensitivity, digital integrity, and sustainability. The 
RBI tightened norms on unsecured lending, enhanced 
supervision of digital journeys, and released draft 
frameworks on climate–related financial disclosures. 
Concurrently, SEBI mandated BRSR Core assurance, and 
the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act was 
enacted to strengthen data privacy rights. Regulatory 
bodies are now setting the tone for integrated,  
forward–looking governance.
Unlike global trends, India remained a bright spot with estimated 
GDP growth of 6.5% in fiscal 2026. Sustained demand from 
rural areas, an anticipated revival in urban consumption, 
expected recovery of fixed capital formation supported by 
increased government capital expenditure, higher capacity 
utilisation, and healthy balance sheets of corporates and banks 
are expected to support growth. Domestic consumption, 
infrastructure–led investments, and financial formalisation 
continued to fuel banking sector growth, particularly in retail, 
secured lending, and MSMEs. Simultaneously, competition 
intensified, driven by a maturing fintech ecosystem, NBFC 
innovations, and digital–first challenger models. UPI volumes, 
AI–enabled credit, and embedded finance redefine how services 
are delivered and consumed.
Global Economic Backdrop
Indian Economy & Banking Sector
Regulatory Landscape
The Bank’s Strategic Positioning
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
26

Operating landscape
Trend
What’s Changing
Strategic Implication
Formal Credit Expansion
MSMEs, secured retail loans, and 
housing finance drive credit growth 
amid policy support and  
demand revival.
We continue to expand our focus 
segments with calibrated growth in 
secured lending and deeper  
penetration in semi–urban and 
rural markets.
Deposit Mobilisation  
Pressure
Tight liquidity and elevated rates 
have intensified competition for 
granular deposits.
We have improved the granularisation in 
our deposit book and the quality of LCR 
deposits through targeted acquisitions, 
product launches, salary credits, and 
CASA deepening across Bharat branches.
Regulatory Tightening
RBI and SEBI introduced new 
frameworks on unsecured lending, 
ESG disclosures (BRSR Core), and data 
protection (DPDP Act).
We have proactively enhanced 
governance, upgraded risk models, and 
embedded compliance–by–design across 
digital and ESG processes.
Digital–first  
Consumer Behaviour
UPI, mobile onboarding, and API 
ecosystems are now the default 
channels for financial engagement.
With 96%+ digital transactions and  
GenAI–powered tools like Adi, neo 
and ‘Siddhi’ we continue to lead in 
delivering intuitive, secure, and intelligent 
customer journeys.
Climate and Sustainability  
Integration
Climate risk is becoming integral 
to credit assessment and 
disclosure mandates.
Through Sustainable bonds, lending to 
ESG positive sectors, and an in–house 
ESG Rating model for borrower–level 
risk review, we are future–proofing our 
portfolio with responsibility.
Rise of AI and 
Embedded Finance
GenAI, credit scoring algorithms, and 
open architecture reshape product 
delivery and underwriting.
We are building an open, API–led,  
AI–enabled ecosystem—integrating our  
offerings into platforms, partners, and 
everyday financial flows.
What’s Reshaping Indian Banking 
27

Competitive Advantages as on/for the year ended March 31, 2025
Metric
Axis Bank
Our Competitive Positioning Commentary
Total Assets
₹16.10 lakh crores
3rd largest private bank in India
Net Advances
8% y–o–y
Balanced growth with stable asset quality
Retail Loan
7% y–o–y
60% share of book
CASA Ratio
41%
Among the best–in–class across peer private sector banks
NIM
3.98%
Sustained margins driven by better mix
Net NPA
0.33%
Among the lowest across peer banks
Consolidated ROE
16.89%
Competitive profitability
Credit Cards CIF
~14% market share
4th largest issuer
UPI Payer PSP Share
~33%
Strong position 
POS Acquiring
2nd rank
Market share in POS terminals – ~20%;  
Leader in Android SmartPOS 
Welcome to Axis Bank
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
28

What Differentiates Us
The Bank’s competitive strength lies in its ability to blend scale with service, technology with trust, and 
strategy with social consciousness. In a market that is crowded with financial choices, we stand apart for 
our openness to possibilities, partnerships, and progress. 
Operating landscape
Ecosystem Partnerships that Unlock New Frontiers 
We co–create digital journeys with some of India’s most trusted names, including Flipkart, Airtel, 
Indian Oil and CSCs, embedding the Bank into the daily lives of individuals, entrepreneurs, and 
communities. Our open architecture, API stack, and fintech collaborations keep us ahead in 
embedded banking.
Deeper Financial Inclusion through Bharat Outreach
Our calibrated RuSu strategy has expanded the Bank’s footprint into India’s hinterlands. With 
over 2,736 Bharat Banking branches, 28,000+ CSC entrepreneurs, and a strong network of 
Business Correspondents, we enable access to formal finance where it matters most.
Digital Intelligence that Empowers People
Our technology is designed to transact and transform. Platforms like ‘Adi’ (a GenAI chatbot for 
employees), ‘neo’ (a GenAI–powered corporate banking tool), and digital transaction adoption 
are helping us scale personalised, frictionless, and future–ready banking.
A Risk–Aware, Responsible Approach to Growth
We lead with integrity, backed by robust governance, Board–level risk oversight, and an 
enterprise-wide compliance culture. Understanding and implementing measures to mitigate 
macroeconomic, regulatory, and customer–level risks drives our business growth.
‘One Axis’, a Unified Financial Services Platform
With 100% or majority ownership in subsidiaries spanning NBFC lending, broking, investment 
banking, AMC, and insurance, our ‘One Axis’ model offers seamless, full–spectrum financial 
solutions from wealth to working capital and coverage credit.
29

Welcome to Axis Bank
30
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25

Building the 
most loved 
brand
Marketing Initiatives
31

Welcome to Axis Bank
32
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25

Axis Bank's commitment to being warm, open, positive, 
caring, and empathetic has become our key differentiator. 
Our campaign, ‘Har raah dil se open’, celebrates over 
100,000 dedicated employees who drive consumer 
satisfaction and delight. Through five compelling films, 
we showcased the unseen efforts of our employees 
in supporting the dreams and aspirations of diverse 
customer segments: salaried individuals, senior citizens, 
start–ups, corporates, HNIs, and customers from rural and 
semi–urban India. This campaign truly highlights the heart 
and soul of Axis Bank.
Marketing Initiatives
33

Dil Se Open
Achh.ai
This festive season, we introduced ACHH.
AI–a first–of–its–kind platform designed to 
make celebrations smarter, more rewarding, 
and truly meaningful. Harnessing the 
power of Generative AI, ACHH.AI brought 
consumers a curated selection of the best 
Axis Bank offers, revolutionising how they 
discover deals across shopping, travel, 
dining, and more. With a sleek, easy–to–use 
microsite, finding the perfect offer was just 
a click away. But ACHH.AI wasn’t just about 
amazing deals — it also inspired thoughtful 
gifting and sustainable choices, reminding 
everyone that while celebrations may come 
and go, kindness and meaningful gestures 
leave a lasting impact.
This year at Axis Bank, we celebrated the 
festive season across regions, embracing 
the unique traditions of Ganesh Utsav, 
Onam, Navratri, and Diwali. Building 
on the insight that festival–inspired 
goodness fades away once festivities 
end, we launched our campaign 
#AchhaiKabhiRukniNahiChahiye to 
encourage customers to carry this spirit 
into everyday life, positioning our credit 
card not just as a celebration tool but as 
an enabler of everyday goodness.
Welcome to Axis Bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
34

Splash
Burgundy Private Experiences are a selection 
of exclusive money–can’t–buy events crafted 
for the discerning Burgundy Private client. 
In fiscal 2025, we curated 18 events across 
5+ cities, engaging over 1,200 clients. Aligned 
with the UHNI pillars of arts, culture, lifestyle, 
and insights, these experiences were created 
in collaboration with renowned partners such 
as BookMyShow, NMACC, MAP and ASIC, 
among others. These thoughtfully designed 
engagements have significantly deepened 
client relationships, further reinforcing 
Burgundy Private’s standing as a leading 
name in the world of private banking.
Axis Bank SPLASH, an annual art competition 
for kids to unleash their creativity a 
imagination, received an overwhelming 
response from customers. The campaign, 
guided by our dil se open philosophy, 
embraced the theme of ‘Gratitude’ this year, 
encouraging young minds to appreciate 
positive influences in their lives. 
The campaign achieved remarkable success 
with nearly 1 million registrations, engaging 
over 3,300 schools, 450 RWAs/Clubs, 500+ 
partner outlets and all our branches.
Marketing Initiatives
35

Our heartfelt campaign beautifully captured the tender emotion of a mother 
celebrating her daughter’s new job. It revealed how, even in a moment of 
personal joy, a mother’s thoughts instinctively turn to her child’s future. 
Through this simple yet powerful moment, we highlighted how a mother’s 
trust in Fixed Deposits is born from pure love and a deep desire to secure a 
safe and prosperous future for her child.
Welcome to Axis Bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
36

We launched a heartwarming campaign that brought to life a familiar, endearing 
quirk of fathers—the ever–present “thumbs up” in chat conversations. The 
narrative captured an emotional moment when a daughter’s decision to invest 
in Fixed Deposits earned her father’s silent yet powerful approval, expressed 
through a burst of heart emojis. Through this simple and relatable story,  
we highlighted the deep sense of trust, pride, and security that Fixed Deposits 
represent for Indian families.
Marketing Initiatives
37

Sanskrit
Password
On Independence Day, we launched 
#SanskritPassword, a unique campaign that 
combined cyber security innovation with India’s 
rich cultural legacy. Through sanskritpassword.
com, we introduced a smarter and stronger 
password system that leverages the complexity 
and uniqueness of Sanskrit – one of the world’s 
oldest and least commonly used languages today. 
By tapping into Sanskrit’s grammatical richness 
and unfamiliarity in the digital space, we offered 
users a highly secure alternative to conventional 
passwords, making it far more resistant to 
modern hacking tools. This initiative positioned 
Sanskrit not just as a cultural symbol but as a 
groundbreaking solution for next–generation 
cyber security.
Welcome to Axis Bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
38

We are constantly innovating to make banking safer and more personal 
for our customers. This Republic Day, we introduced #DevanagariPIN — 
a new way to create secure, personalised PINs by converting any word 
into a unique numeric code using the Devanagari script. Through a simple 
microsite, customers could enter any word and instantly generate a 
secure PIN. By moving away from predictable choices like birthdays, this 
initiative not only offered a smarter approach to digital security but also 
celebrated India’s rich linguistic heritage.
During Fraud Awareness Week, we launched a 
campaign to raise awareness about a growing 
digital threat – Instant Personal Loan App Fraud. 
Our campaign highlighted how unverified loan apps 
lure users with promises of quick, easy loans, while 
secretly exploiting mobile permissions to access 
personal and confidential information. 
By illustrating these hidden risks, we aimed to 
drive awareness about the importance of managing 
app permissions carefully and downloading 
only from verified sources – because ultimately 
#PermissionMatters.
Devanagari PIN 
Personal
Loan Fraud
Awareness
Marketing Initiatives
39

Subrat Mohanty
Executive  
Director
Mini Ipe
Non–Executive 
Nominee Director
CH. S. S. Mallikarjunarao
Independent  
Director 
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Independent 
Director 
Meena Ganesh
Independent  
Director 
Pranam Wahi
Independent  
Director
P. N. Prasad
Independent 
Director 
Munish Sharda
Executive  
Director
G. Padmanabhan
Independent  
Director
BOARD OF DIREC TORS
Governance rooted in responsibility
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director &  
CEO
The Board at Axis Bank is the cornerstone of responsible governance. With expertise across 
financial services, risk, technology, and public policy, it ensures our strategy is future–focused 
and anchored in integrity, compliance, and transparency. The Board’s insight shapes a 
governance framework that safeguards stakeholder interests, upholds regulatory excellence, 
and drives long–term value creation.
Welcome to Axis Bank
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director  
and part–time Chairman
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing 
Director
Girish Paranjpe
Independent  
Director 
(as on April 24, 2025)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
40

CORE MANAGEMENT TE AM
Driving strategy with integrity  
and precision
The Bank’s Core Management Team brings together deep domain expertise across finance, 
risk, operations, and technology. United by a shared commitment to integrity, agility, and 
customer–centricity, and guided by strategic foresight, the Team helps the Bank navigate 
through a dynamic business environment and regulatory shifts.
 Board of directors | Core management team
Arjun Chowdhry
Group Executive – Affluent Banking, Retail Lending, 
Cards & Payments
Balaji N
President – Business Intelligence Unit
Vijay Mulbagal
Group Executive – Strategic Program & Sustainability
Rajkamal Vempati
President – Human Resources
Prashant Joshi
Group Executive & Chief Credit Officer
Damini Marwah
President – Legal and Chief Ethics Officer
Anuranjan Kumar
President & Group Chief Compliance Officer
Rohit Ranjan
President – LAP & Affordable Home Loans
Arvind Singla
President – Retail Operations
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Neeraj Gambhir
Group Executive – Treasury & Markets and 
Wholesale Banking Products
Bimal Bhattacharyya
President & Group Chief Audit Executive
Amit Talgeri
President & Group Chief Risk Officer
Reynold D’souza
President – Branch Banking – North
Arnika Dixit
President – Cards & Wealth Businesses
Sanjeev Moghe
President – Branch Banking – South
Puneet Sharma
Group Executive & Chief Financial Officer
Kartik Bangalore
President – Conglomerates & Large 
Corporates Segment
Anil Agarwal
President – Financial Institutions Group & PSU 
and Govt. Coverage Group
Sameer Shetty
President – Digital Business and Transformation
Avinash Raghavendra
President – Information Technology
(as on April 24, 2025)
41

Value 
creation 
by the Bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
42

Axis Bank creates long–term value by aligning its strategy 
with stakeholder needs and the priorities of a dynamic, 
developing India. Our business model transforms financial 
and non–financial resources into impactful financial 
products, services, and digital experiences that advance 
inclusion, innovation, and sustainability. By staying agile, 
responsible, and future–ready, we continue to generate 
meaningful outcomes for our customers, communities, 
employees, and shareholders. This approach not only 
enhances performance and trust but also reinforces our role 
in supporting India’s economic and social transformation.
43

VALUE CRE ATION MODEL
Blueprint for sustainable value creation
Value creation by the bank
The Bank’s business model reflects 
our steadfast commitment to creating 
long–term, value for all stakeholders.
We channel diverse forms of capital 
into sustainable growth outcomes, 
aligning purpose with performance. 
At the heart of this model lies our 
brand promise, ‘Har raah dil se open’, 
symbolising our openness to people, 
partnerships, progress and the planet. 
Guided by our Vision, Mission and 
Values. We endeavour to understand 
stakeholder needs and societal 
expectations and drive strategic action.
Capitals
As defined by the <IR> Framework, 
capitals are the key resources and 
relationships an organisation draws 
upon to create, deliver, and sustain 
value over time. These include financial 
resources, physical and technological 
assets, human skills and capabilities, 
institutional knowledge, stakeholder 
relationships, and natural ecosystems. 
Together, these form the foundation 
of an organisation’s ability to operate, 
innovate, and grow responsibly.
The Framework outlines six  
capitals–Financial, Manufactured, 
Intellectual, Human, Social and 
Relationship, and Natural–to 
encourage integrated thinking across 
all dimensions of value. Evaluating Axis 
Bank through this framework enables 
a holistic understanding of how we 
deploy resources, manage trade–offs, 
and generate long–term outcomes for 
our stakeholders, aligning with  
our purpose, vision, and mission.
Inputs
Inputs represent the foundation 
of the value creation process for 
the year. Input capitals comprise 
of financial capital shown in the 
standalone and consolidated financial 
statements of the Bank and ‘off–
balance sheet’ or ‘hidden’ capital, 
such as the institutional knowledge of 
the Bank, the reputation it has built 
over the years, and the strength of 
its relationships with stakeholders. 
The Bank harnesses and transforms 
these inputs through its strategy, 
business model, and operations to 
generate outputs (e.g., loans, digital 
transactions, products) and outcomes 
(e.g., stakeholder value, financial 
performance, societal impact). The 
efficiency, quality, and sustainability 
with which an organisation utilises its 
inputs significantly influence long–term 
performance, capital appreciation 
or depletion, stakeholder trust, and 
risk resilience.
Value Driver Activities
A clearly defined strategic intent drives 
Axis Bank’s value creation process 
Our Vision, Mission, and Values,  
focused on customer centricity, 
ethics, ownership, transparency, and 
teamwork aid this process. Grounded 
in our purpose, we utilise diverse 
inputs across six capitals to fuel our 
business operations. These operations 
constitute the core of Axis Bank. 
Our understanding of the external 
environment, identifying key issues, 
and proactive stakeholder engagement  
help us stay agile and responsive amid 
dynamic conditions.
With a strong strategy and resource 
allocation underpinned by integrated 
risk management, we transform 
these inputs into outputs that yield 
sustainable results. These results 
enhance the value of our capitals 
over time, as demonstrated by our 
performance in financial strength, 
digital leadership, social impact, and 
environmental responsibility. We aim to 
deliver future–ready solutions, deepen 
inclusion, and embed sustainability 
throughout our business.  
This approach embodies our 
commitment to being open to all 
stakeholders, opportunities, and 
possibilities for long–term, sustainable 
value creation.
Output
Outputs are the direct and tangible 
results of the Bank’s business 
operations, including products 
delivered, services provided, customer 
interactions, and digital engagements. 
They signify what we generate 
by effectively utilising inputs and 
executing on our strategic priorities.  
These outputs stem from our core 
value driver activities and are 
influenced by our Mission, Vision, 
Values, stakeholder expectations, 
and decisions informed by 
risk considerations.
Nevertheless, outputs by themselves 
do not indicate long–term success.  
They pave the way for broader 
outcomes and lasting impacts on our 
stakeholders and the six capitals. 
For instance, a loan (output) fosters 
financial inclusion (outcome); a digital 
onboarding process boosts customer 
satisfaction; and the issuance of a 
green bond can support emissions 
reduction by industry. Thus, through 
our value driver activities, outputs 
serve as pathways that convert 
strategy into action and action into 
impact, bridging the gap between what 
we do and why it is significant, aligning 
with our purpose of creating lasting, 
sustainable value for everyone.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
44

We have mapped the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to our six–capital model to align 
our value creation process with global priorities and ensure that our business contributes 
meaningfully to inclusive, equitable, and sustainable development. This integration helps us 
demonstrate how using and enhancing the six capitals supports broader societal outcomes. 
Mapping SDGs 
with capitals
Outcome
Outcomes represent the long–term 
impacts of the Bank’s outputs, 
illustrating how our products, 
services, and actions influence the 
creation, preservation or erosion of 
the six capitals over time. Outputs 
indicate the immediate results of our 
business operations. At the same time, 
outcomes reflect the deeper value 
generated for stakeholders: financial 
inclusion, customer trust, employee 
development, community wellbeing, 
environmental sustainability, and 
systemic resilience. 
Our value driver activities allow us to 
create and sustain value for the Bank 
and society. 
For instance, when a loan is provided 
(an output), it transforms into an 
outcome if it aids a small growth of 
business or helps an individual attain 
financial security. This outcome 
promotes long–term value creation 
across customers, communities, 
investors, employees,  
and the environment.
Value creation model
Value Creation in Action
Our value creation model comes to life through everyday stories where strategy and purpose intersect. By applying 
integrated thinking across the six capitals, we transform inputs into meaningful outcomes, yielding financial profits along 
with societal and environmental benefits. The following case study illustrates how one such intervention generates 
lasting value.
Case study
A 32–year–old small business owner based in Nashik, looking to switch to an electric vehicle (EV) to reduce 
fuel expenses and expand delivery services.
Input (Capitals Utilised): We 
deploy resources across 6 
capitals for disbursement of 
EV loans
	»
Financial Capital: Lending 
corpus allocated to 
EV segment
	»
Human Capital: Trained 
frontline staff
	»
Intellectual Capital: 
Data analytics for 
customer targeting
	»
Manufactured Capital: 
Branch Banking 
outlet & digital 
onboarding platform
	»
Social and Relationship 
Capital: Partnership 
with EV dealership, local 
financial literacy workshop
	»
Natural Capital: 
commitment to lending 
to sectors that can avoid 
carbon emissions
Value Driver Activities: 
Strategic actions convert 
potential into progress
	»
Risk–adjusted pricing for 
EV loans
	»
Climate–aligned 
product innovation
	»
Customer obsession 
initiative ‘Sparsh’ enables 
personalised guidance
	»
ESG–linked lending goals
	»
Stakeholder engagement 
with Customer, OEMs 
and regulators
Output: Timely,  
digital–first delivery  
creates immediate value
	»
Disbursement of EV loan
	»
Paperless journey
	»
Bank achieves EV 
lending milestone
Outcome: A single loan 
transforms lives, climate, 
and capital
	»
Bank earns through 
optimal pricing on loans
	»
Adds e–commerce 
delivery to the 
business, resulting in 
income growth
	»
Community sees rise in 
EV adoption 
	»
Bank advances 
climate target through 
EV penetration
	»
Contributes to SDG 
7 (Affordable Clean 
Energy), 13 (Climate 
Action), 8 (Decent Work)
45

Our Values
	»
Customer Centricity 
	»
Ethics
	»
Transparency
	»
Teamwork
	»
Ownership
Our Purpose
Banking that leads to a more 
inclusive and equitable economy, 
a thriving community, and a 
healthier planet
Our Vision
To be the preferred financial 
services provider excelling in 
customer service delivery through 
insight, empowered employees, & 
smart use of technology
Value creation by the bank
Value creation model
M5
M6
M11
M8
M1
M7
M7
M9
M13
M12
M2
M9
M10
M1
M3
M4
M15
Material
Issues
Input
Value Driver Activities 
Outcomes
Risk
Our Capitals
UN SDGs
Financial 
Capital
Manufactured 
Capital
Intellectual 
Capital
Human  
Capital
Social & 
Relationship  
Capital
Natural  
Capital
	» Shareholders funds – ₹1,786.17 billion
	» Total deposits – ₹11,729.52 billion
	» Total borrowings – ₹1,841.47 billion
	» Total Assets size – ₹16,099.30 billion
	» Operating profit – ₹421.05 billion
	» CRAR – 17.07%
	» Net NPA – 0.33%
	» Consolidated RoA – 1.77%
	» Consolidated RoE – 16.89%
	» ~56 million Individual customers
	» 7% y–o–y growth in Rural Advances
	» Domestic reach – 692 districts across 
28 states and 7 union territories
	» Average monthly customers  
connected through AVCs – 9.2 million
	» Future–proofing our portfolio with 
responsibility with in–house ESG Rating 
model for borrower–level risk review
	» Top rated mobile banking with  
15 million MAU (monthly active users)
	» UPI transaction value increased by  
54% y–o–y
	» 91% service requests done digitally
	» Certified again as Great Place to  
Work® (GPTW)
	» Profit per employee – ₹0.25 crores
	» 6 million+ total learning hours 
of employees
	» Total GIGA employees – 2,544
	» Total number of customers ~59 million
	» CSR participants – ~10 lakh lives 
positively impacted in this fiscal
	» 27 Smart Cities where Bank delivered 
services to assist civic administration
	» Retail NPS Score – 159  
on baseline of 100
	» Energy intensity per rupee adjusted  
for PPP – 0.0000118 (GJ/₹)
	» Energy used from renewable sources 
– 8.78%
	» Lent to sectors with positive E and S 
outcomes – ₹48,412 crores
	» IFC partnered to provide a $500 million 
loan for financing green projects
	» ~₹22,160 crores Green lending  
portfolio
	» New branches and banking outlets 
opened in fiscal 2025 – 500
	» Lending in RuSu markets (Bharat Banking 
branches – 2,736) to complement 
PSL strategy
	» ATMs and cash deposit/withdrawal 
machines – 13,941
	» International branches and 
representative offices – 11
	» Axis Virtual Centres – 8
	» ESG issuances under the Sustainable 
Financing Framework
	» 23% y-o-y increase in investment 
in technology
	» Best–in–class UPI stack
	» Dedicated digital team
	» Total employee count – 1,04,453
	» Staff cost – ₹121.93 billion
	» Target 30% female representation in 
workforce by fiscal 2027
	» Learning and training initiatives
	» Axis GIGA 2.0 – Working from anywhere
	» ‘Siddhi’ App empowering employees 
to engage with customers
	» Funding to on CSR programs  
– ₹4.27 billion 
	» Nation building partnerships
	» Customer obsession program 
– Sparsh
	» Total energy consumption – 825.5 TJ
	» Renewable energy as part of total 
energy consumption – 72.48 TJ
	» ESG policy for Lending
	» Scaling the green portfolio
	» Commitment to reducing emissions 
in operations
Sustainability
Profitability
Growth
Stakeholder Engagement     |     Material Issues     |        External Environment     |     Risk Management
Deposits
Operations
Customer
Service
Investment
Management
Underwriting, Risk
Management &
Collections
Lending
Read more pg. 58
Read more pg. 88
Read more pg. 96
Read more pg. 104
Read more pg. 107
Read more pgs. 26 and 84
Read more pg. 76
Read more pg. 186
Read more pg. 48
Performance
Outlook
Retail Banking
Loans, savings and retail term 
deposits, credit, debit and forex 
cards, bill payment services, 
wealth management and  
third–party product distribution
Wholesale Banking
Loans, current and corporate term 
deposits, payments, trade finance 
products, letter of credit, bank 
guarantees, cash management 
services and commercial cards
Treasury
Foreign Exchange (Forex), 
Derivatives, Debt Capital Markets 
(DCM), Loan Syndication, 
Investment & Liquidity 
Management, Asset Liability 
Management (ALM)
Output (Services Offered by Business Segments)
Our Mission
Our Mission is to be the 
preferred financial solutions 
provider across the country, 
delivering customer delight by:
	»
Providing innovative and 
intuitive banking solutions
	»
A combination of 
organisational agility, 
digital capabilities and 
physical reach
	»
Adopting sustainable 
banking practices, 
particularly around ESG 
& climate change
DR
IV
EN
 B
Y
BU
SI
NE
SS
 A
CT
IV
IT
IE
S
	» Credit
	» Liquidity
	» Market
	» Information &  
Cyber Security
	» Operational 
	» Climate
	» Operational
	» Climate
	» Cyber Security
	» Operational
	» Information & 
Cyber Security
	» Operational
	» Credit
	» Information & 
Cyber Security
	» Climate
	» Climate
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
46
47

Value creation by the bank
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Engaging with purpose 
and addressing what 
matters
We conduct a formal Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality 
Assessment (SEMA) exercise 
periodically, engaging with both 
our internal stakeholders, such 
as employees, and external 
stakeholders, such as our 
customers. Engaging with our 
stakeholders helps us maintain 
a strong, organisation–wide 
grievance redressal framework, 
ensuring stakeholders, 
expectations and concerns are 
addressed promptly, reinforcing 
trust and accountability.
In fiscal 2025, the Bank conducted 
a fresh SEMA exercise, which 
included for the first time a 
Double Materiality Assessment. 
Based on our internal survey 
and benchmarking exercise, the 
identified stakeholders were 
prioritised according to their 
influence and impact.
At Axis Bank, meaningful 
engagement with our 
stakeholders is essential 
to understand their 
expectations. 
This commitment to 
purposeful engagement 
helps us gauge the internal 
and external business 
environment and assess key 
material issues and risks 
based on their severity and 
likelihood of occurrence. 
It also shapes our business 
purpose and guides our  
strategy to create long–term 
sustainable value.
Stakeholder Prioritisation Matrix
High Impact, 
Low Influence 
(Value Chain Partners)
Low Impact, 
Low Influence 
(Industry & Peers)
High Impact, 
High Influence 
(Investors, Customers, 
Employees, Regulators 
& Policymakers)
Low Impact, 
High Influence 
(Communities & NGOs, 
Rating Agencies)
High
High
Influence
Impact
Low
A
B
C
D
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
48

Stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder Identification 
Key stakeholder groups were identified 
through a comprehensive internal 
assessment and industry benchmarking 
exercise. The process mapped how 
stakeholders affect and are affected by  
the Bank’s operations.
Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality in Fiscal 2025
Categorisation and Prioritisation 
Stakeholders were prioritised and 
categorised based on their relevance, 
significance, and impact on the Bank’s 
value creation process. They were 
systematically classified into internal, 
external, and affected stakeholder groups 
to support focused engagement.
Stakeholder Engagement
To ensure our strategy aligns with our 
stakeholders’ priorities and creates 
mutual value, we systematically map 
and identify stakeholders based on 
their potential impact on our business, 
their influence (direct and indirect), 
and our impact on them. Following 
internal assessments and leadership 
discussions, we identified 8 key 
stakeholder groups, encompassing 
Investors, Customers, Regulators & 
Identification of IROs  
(Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities) 
15 material IROs were identified through 
in–depth research, peer benchmarking, 
internal deliberations, and alignment 
with the European Sustainability 
Reporting Standards (ESRS). These IROs 
reflect actual or potential positive and 
negative impacts, as well as associated 
risks and opportunities, arising from 
the Bank’s business model and value 
creation activities.
Stakeholder Engagement and Double 
Materiality Assessment
A customised survey framework was 
designed in line with the Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive  
(CSRD) to assess double materiality:
	»
Impact Materiality  
(Inside–out Perspective) 
Evaluated the significance and 
severity of impacts based on their 
scale, scope, and irremediability 
over short, medium, and long–term 
timeframes for the identified IROs.
	»
Financial Materiality  
(Outside–in Perspective) 
Assessed the likelihood and 
potential magnitude of financial 
impacts of material issues on the 
Bank’s performance in the short, 
medium, and long term.
Impact Prioritisation and Materiality 
Matrix Development
Material topics were prioritised by 
integrating the outcomes of both impact 
and financial materiality assessments.  
The final Materiality Matrix was developed 
by plotting the prioritised IROs to visually 
represent their significance across the 
double materiality dimensions.
Policymakers, Communities & NGOs, 
Industry & Peers, Rating Agencies, 
Value Chain Partners, and Employees. 
To connect with these diverse groups, 
we undertook planned engagements 
through regular customer surveys, 
investor meetings, employee town 
halls, and other means, focusing on 
responsive, need–based dialogue.
1
4
5
2
3
49

Value creation by the bank
Investors
Why They Matter
Investors play a pivotal role in the growth and sustainability of a bank. For a rapidly developing economy like India, 
access to growth capital is essential, and investors are not only stakeholders but also the providers of capital–both 
in the form of equity and debt instruments such as bonds. Their confidence and continued support are vital for 
maintaining financial stability and fostering long–term value creation. A structured and proactive communication 
with market participants, including investors, ensures transparency, builds trust, and facilitates a continuous  
two–way dialogue that contributes to efficient price discovery.
How We Connect
	»
Post–quarterly earnings calls 
	»
Conference presentations to 
analysts and investors
	»
Investor forums, industry 
conferences, and  
broker–led events
	»
Organised investor roadshows 
(both domestic and international)
	»
One–on–one and group meetings
	»
Analyst meets
	»
Non–deal roadshows 
Continuous/Periodic/ 
Need–based
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Financial performance
	»
Compliance, governance, and  
ethical business practices
	»
Business strategy & 
operational efficiency
	»
Long–term value creation
	»
ESG performance, risks, 
and opportunities
	»
Transparent lending & 
responsible banking practices
	»
Technology & innovation  
in business
We continue to deliver value through strong financial performance, consistent EPS growth, and robust asset quality, 
anchored in prudent risk management and regulatory compliance. Our healthy capital position and low NPAs reflect 
disciplined governance. ESG excellence is validated by top–tier ratings and global sustainability index inclusion. We 
uphold transparency and accountability through strong corporate governance. Impactful CSR initiatives in education, 
livelihoods, and financial inclusion reinforce our social commitment. A rising NPS highlights our customer–centric 
approach, driven by digital innovation and trust. By integrating profitability, responsibility, and governance, we create 
sustainable long–term value for all stakeholders.
How We Respond
Our response to an evolving 
environment is anchored in our  
GPS strategy–which shapes  
every decision we make.  
We are committed to:
	»
Focusing on sustainable growth 
and long–term value creation
	»
Upholding transparent 
governance, ethical conduct, and 
robust disclosures
	»
Promoting responsible banking 
and driving inclusive impact
	»
Staying agile by continuously 
tracking market trends and 
refining strategies
	»
Strengthening risk management 
frameworks to proactively 
manage emerging risks
	»
Maintaining open and continuous 
dialogue with stakeholders
Shared Value Creation
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
50

Stakeholder engagement
Customers
Why They Matter
Our aim is to help our customers reach their financial goals by offering them a bouquet of products and services. 
Our policies and practices directly impact their financial health, and their active engagement with the Bank is 
key to our shared success and ability to create value. 
How We Connect
	»
Communication at branches and 
with Relationship Managers
	»
Telephonic and online 
communication via 
website, emails, Mobile 
Banking application, social 
media platforms
	»
Axis Virtual Centre
	»
Customer satisfaction survey
	»
Grievance mechanisms
	»
Marketing campaigns
	»
Meetings with Retail and 
corporate customers
Continuous/Need–based
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Quality products and services
	»
Innovative technology
	»
Transparency and fair business
	»
Maintaining customer data privacy 
and security
	»
Effective and quick customer 
grievance redressal mechanism
How We Respond
	»
‘One Axis’ approach – offering all 
services under one roof
	»
Customised and specialised 
products and services 
	»
Continuous focus on 
customer delight
	»
Ethical business practices
	»
Focus on digitisation and customer 
data privacy
	»
Introduced Axis Pride, focusing 
on the quick resolution of 
customer grievances
	»
Sustainable Financing 
	»
Regular interaction and 
Satisfaction Surveys
	»
Leadership in digital banking – 
highest rated banking application 
in the world offering over 
200 services
Shared Value Creation
Strengthening of the Bank’s Social and Relationship Capital, as reflected in key customer–centric KPIs – Retail 
Net Promoter Score (NPS) at 159 (on an indexed baseline of 100 since inception of baseline i.e. Q1FY23)  
59 million customers as on March 31, 2025. The Bank has an extensive branch network, ATMs and CDMs.  
To make its products and services accessible to all customers, including persons with disabilities (PWDs),  
the Bank has enabled its ATMs with Braille keypads and talking functionality (voice guidance). In branches 
that are not easily accessible, ramps have been constructed where feasible to facilitate access for PWDs.  
The Bank has doorstep banking services for the ease of operations for senior citizens and PWDs. 
51

Regulators & Policymakers
Why They Matter
The Banking sector operates under the most stringent fiduciary and regulatory standards and evolving regulations 
impact their operations. From regulations on capital requirements, lending practices and financial reporting 
requirements to priority sector lending targets or new policies on cyber security, Banks’ business strategy as well 
as profitability are directly impacted by changing regulations and policies.
How We Connect
	»
Mandatory filings with 
regulators; interaction 
during inspections
	»
One–on–one meetings, 
group meetings and 
email correspondence
	»
Periodical submissions 
of business and 
operational performance
	»
Engagement at banking and 
industry platforms, conferences, 
and regulatory reviews
	»
Corporate announcements
Continuous/Need–based
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Corporate governance
	»
Adherence to all compliance norms
	»
Financial and non–financial 
performance of the organisation
	»
Financial inclusion initiatives
How We Respond
	»
Transparent and fair disclosures
	»
Robust compliance culture across 
the Bank
	»
Responsible lending & 
NPA management 
	»
Digitisation and reaching 
underserved populations   
	»
Publishing third–party assured 
ESG disclosures
Shared Value Creation
At Axis Bank, we prioritise a culture of compliance and ethical business conduct, transparent corporate 
governance, and upholding robust policy frameworks and complying with all regulations. The Bank’s Board 
committees maintain independence for impartial decision–making and effective governance.
Value creation by the bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
52

Stakeholder engagement
Employees
Why They Matter
Our employees drive organisational success through their expertise, productivity, and commitment–directly 
influencing our ability to achieve strategic goals and deliver exceptional customer experiences. In return, the 
Bank fosters a culture rooted in strong values, inclusive policies, and supportive practices that shape employee 
engagement, performance, and overall wellbeing.
How We Connect
	»
Internal communications 
– webcasts, newsletters, 
surveys, emails
	»
Management visits to branches
	»
Employee engagement surveys
	»
Amber AI chatbot for  
real–time listening
	»
Town–hall meetings with MD
	»
Training and 
development program
	»
Mid–year and annual 
performance appraisals
	»
Intranet portal–My Connect
	»
Wellness program
	»
Employee–led communities and 
groups like Pride365
Continuous/Periodic
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Career development and 
growth opportunities
	»
Learning & skill 
building opportunities
	»
Health & wellbeing
	»
Inclusion at workplace
	»
Hybrid & flexible working
	»
Exposure & interaction 
with leadership
	»
Recognition of contributions and 
service milestones
	»
Compensation & Benefits
Shared Value Creation
Axis Bank remains committed to nurturing its human capital of over 1.04 lakh employees through continuous 
learning, inclusivity, and employee wellbeing. Key KPIs such as 58.6 average L&D hours per employee, workforce 
diversity of 27.7%, employee engagement scores and initiatives like the GIGA program, reflect this focus. We have 
also had 5,700+ employees benefit from our internal mobility program.
How We Respond
	»
Industry first mobility program 
– thrive with opportunities for 
cross–functional movements and 
fast track promotions
	»
Best–in–class learning resources 
and leveraging technology 
for enabling anytime, 
anywhere learning
	»
Wellbeing ecosystem, including 
mental health support, financial 
literacy, ergonomic workspaces 
and wellness sherpas 
	»
Effective employee feedback and 
grievance mechanism
	»
Promoting Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion
	»
Deploying AI–driven tools 
across recruitment, learning and 
employee services
	»
Structured rewards and 
recognition program
	»
Multi–tiered leadership  
development programs to build 
capabilities across levels
53

Industry & Peers
Why They Matter
The Bank operates within a dynamic and competitive ecosystem, constantly impacted by its industry peers and 
associations. Industry associations play a crucial role in advocating for the interests of the banking sector, shaping 
industry best practices, and facilitating knowledge–sharing.
How We Connect
	»
Communication with industry 
and trade associations
	»
Engagement under the Indian 
Banks’ Association (IBA) and 
multilateral platforms 
	»
Corporate seminars
Continuous/Need–based
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Policy advocacy
	»
Knowledge sharing
	»
Collaboration opportunities
Shared Value Creation
In fiscal 2025, the Bank’s leadership played an active role in shaping ESG and climate action agendas by 
serving on key national committees of reputed industry bodies such as FICCI, CII, the Bombay Chamber 
of Commerce & Industry (BCCI), and IBA. These positions underscore our commitment to meaningful 
engagement, policy advocacy, and thought leadership at both national and international levels.
How We Respond
Formally represented on industry 
platforms – World Economic 
Forum, IBA, CII, BCCI, FICCI, 
and NASSCOM, among others 
participation in thought leadership 
and advocacy Including ESG, CSR, 
DE&I and climate action 
Value creation by the bank
For more details, please 
refer to pg. 196 on 
Thought Leadership and 
Policy Advocacy
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
54

Stakeholder engagement
Communities & NGOs
Why They Matter
Banks directly and indirectly impact communities near their operational areas. Beyond financial services,  
the Bank actively contributes to societal wellbeing through impactful CSR initiatives, partnerships with 
NGOs, and collaborations with academia.
How We Connect
	»
CSR programs implemented by 
Axis Bank
	»
Feedback through 
structured questionnaires 
	»
Conferences and roundtables
	»
NGO/CSO capacity building  
workshops
Continuous/Need–based
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Financial inclusion
	»
Inclusive growth
	»
Quality of education
	»
Environmental sustainability
	»
Access to healthcare
Shared Value Creation
The Bank continues to create long–term social value through targeted interventions. Key performance 
indicators such as CSR participants of ~10 lakhs and having active CSR interventions in 32 States and Union 
Territories of India reflect our commitment to inclusive growth. These initiatives have structured monitoring 
mechanisms to ensure effectiveness, transparency, and impact.
How We Respond
Continued efforts in aligning our 
CSR goals across the thematic areas 
including access to banking in rural 
and remote areas:
	»
Sustainable livelihoods
	»
Education
	»
Financial literacy and inclusion
	»
Environmental sustainability
	»
Sports
	»
Health and nutrition
	»
Humanitarian and relief
55

Rating Agencies 
Why They Matter
Rating agencies (both credit and ESG) significantly influence the Bank’s financial health and public perception. 
Their assessments directly impact the Bank’s access to capital, influencing the interest rates on instruments issued 
by the Bank, ultimately affecting the cost of capital.
How We Connect
	»
One–on–one meetings and 
group meetings
	»
Email correspondence
	»
Submissions of financial & 
non–financial performance for 
issuance & review of ratings
Periodic/Need–based
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Financial parameters 
and profitability
	»
ESG performance & reporting
Shared Value Creation
Axis Bank’s strong credit Ratings and ESG ratings/scores are a direct result of its disciplined financial management, 
sound governance, and sustainability integration. In fiscal 2025, this enabled a reduction in cost of capital, 
better pricing on debt instruments, and increased access to green and sustainable finance. During the year, the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, partnered with Axis Bank to provide a 
$500 million loan to help develop a blue finance market and scale up financing of green projects in India. Improved 
CAR by 44 bps and GNPA by 15 bps in fiscal 2025 on a y–o–y basis, reflecting a resilient risk profile and sustained 
business growth. The Bank’s governance and ESG disclosures’ alignment with the <IR> framework/BRSR standards 
highlights our commitment to responsible business practices and long–term value creation.
How We Respond
	»
Transparent financial and  
non–financial reporting
	»
Improved profitability and 
operational performance
	»
Improved ESG disclosures 
and scores
Value creation by the bank
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
56

Stakeholder engagement
Value Chain Partners
Why They Matter
A bank’s relationship with its value chain partners (service providers, material suppliers, business 
associates, distributors, and other upstream partners) is crucial for its smooth and efficient operation and 
cost effectiveness.
How We Connect
	»
Vendor meetings
	»
Structured surveys
	»
Techno–commercial  
discussions and service  
engagements
	»
Audit, governance, and  
compliance meetings
	»
Contracts, emails, and calls
Periodic/Need–based
Frequency
What Matters Most to Them
	»
Timely payouts
	»
Fair contractual terms and 
adherence to these terms
	»
Organisational ESG consciousness
	»
Transparent, ethical, and long–term 
business relations
	»
Regular exchange of technical  
know–how
How We Respond
	»
Ensuring timely payouts  
for services
	»
Commitment to equitable  
agreements and their  
faithful implementation
	»
Having a Vendor Code of  
Conduct in place
	»
Building trustworthy, moral, and  
enduring partnerships
	»
Operating with a strong focus on  
ESG–aligned responsibilities
Shared Value Creation
The Bank promotes a responsible and inclusive value chain by engaging a wide network of business associates and 
MSME vendors, with a strong focus on local sourcing (97%). Guided by a comprehensive Vendor Code of Conduct, 
we encourage ethical and sustainable practices across our supplier base. Regular awareness programs and periodic 
assessments help ensure compliance and continuous improvement among value chain partners.
57

Value creation by the bank
Following the Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality 
Assessment undertaken by the 
Bank in fiscal 2022 and the 
subsequent stakeholder feedback, 
we adopted a ‘Double Materiality’ 
approach in fiscal 2025 to assess 
the material issues relevant to 
the Bank. A total of 15 IROs were 
identified based on our internal 
assessment, sector research, peer 
review and benchmarking, and 
secondary sources. 
During the ‘Double Materiality 
Assessment’ for the fiscal 2025, 
we considered how the Bank’s 
operations affect the environment 
and people while also assessing 
how the IROs affect the Bank’s 
long–term value, financial 
performance, and resilience. 
We considered both the actual 
and potential, positive and negative, 
societal and environmental footprint 
across short term, medium term and 
long term.
The Bank aligned its methodology 
with leading global benchmarks, 
including the Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (CSRD) and 
European Sustainability Reporting 
Standards (ESRS) on double 
materiality. Our comprehensive 
assessment also resonates with the 
guiding principles of the BRSR and 
<IR> frameworks. 
We strongly believe that continuous 
engagement with our stakeholders 
is essential to truly understand 
the issues that are of the greatest 
importance to the Bank’s operations. 
We recognise that stakeholders often 
have diverse and, at times, opposing 
perspectives on these critical matters.
To ensure long–term 
sustainability and value 
creation, Axis Bank 
proactively identifies 
and manages relevant 
Impacts, Risks, and 
Opportunities (IROs) in the 
rapidly evolving financial 
sector. We recognise the 
importance of thoroughly 
assessing these factors 
to strategically mitigate 
potential downsides while 
unlocking new avenues 
for growth, contributing 
meaningfully to the  
nation’s progress.
MATERIALIT Y A SSESSMENT
Identifying and 
prioritising key issues
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
58

Approach to Double Materiality
Materiality Matrix
Financial Materiality
Impact Materiality
Risk Management
Regulatory Compliance
Corporate 
Governance & 
Ethical Business 
Conduct
Employee Engagement, Development & Wellbeing
Fraud and Money Laundering: – Prevention, Detection & Mitigation
Privacy and Data Security 
Innovation & Digitalisation
Financial Inclusion, Literacy and Access
Impact of Climate Change
Policy Advocacy & Thought leadership
Community Engagement & Development
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Return on Equity and Return to Shareholders
Customer Experience & Satisfaction
Sustainable Finance & Responsible Banking
Identifying IROs 
(Impact, Risk & 
Opportunities)
Impact  
Materiality
Financial  
Materiality
Prioritisation of 
Material matters
Materiality 
Matrix
Materiality assessment
59

Value creation by the bank
Risk Management
Corporate Governance & Ethical Business Conduct
What it Means 
Robust risk management 
enhances the Bank’s resilience 
and drives sustainable growth. 
In today’s dynamic financial 
landscape, proactively managing 
both traditional financial and 
emerging ESG–related risks is key 
to navigating complexities and 
seizing opportunities.
What it Means 
Strong governance and ethical 
conduct are fundamental to 
the Bank’s long–term success 
and trust–building. We uphold 
high governance standards, 
ensure accountable leadership, 
and embed ethics across our 
operations and financing.  
A comprehensive ESG strategy 
further helps align with 
stakeholder priorities, address 
climate challenges, and ensure 
effective board oversight, driving 
transparency, fairness, and shared 
sustainable value creation.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
Our risk management framework 
empowers us to identify and 
address changing risks proactively. 
Supported by an independent Risk 
function, the Board maintains keen 
oversight on every aspect of risk 
management, ensuring transparency, 
accountability, and resilience.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
We uphold the highest standards 
of governance while maintaining 
rigorous transparency in risk 
management and internal controls. 
Our robust Governance Framework 
ensures full regulatory compliance 
and supports value creation for 
all stakeholders.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
In–house ESG Rating model 
to augment borrower-level 
credit appraisal developed
	»
Built stress testing and 
scenario analysis capabilities 
in line with regulatory 
guidance and expectations
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
Zero incidents of conflict 
of interest
	»
15% representation of  
women in the Board of  
Directors
	»
61.54% Independent  
Directors on the Board
	»
First Indian Bank to constitute 
an ESG Committee of 
the Board
	»
Retained top–tier ‘Leadership’ 
rating in the Indian Corporate 
Governance Scorecard by IiAS
Capital Linkage
Capital Linkage
SDG Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
SDGs Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
60

Materiality assessment
Regulatory Compliance 
Fraud & Money Laundering–Prevention,  
Detection & Mitigation
What it Means 
Adherence to the regulatory 
framework is not just a legal 
obligation but essential to long–
term value creation. As a leading 
financial institution in India, we 
navigate a complex and evolving 
regulatory environment, where 
any non–compliance can lead  
to financial penalties,  
legal repercussions, and  
reputational damage.
What it Means 
Safeguarding against fraud and 
money laundering is crucial 
for the Bank and the financial 
system’s integrity. As these risks 
evolve, especially with the growth 
of digital banking, it is essential 
to implement comprehensive 
measures to prevent, detect, 
and respond to them across 
all operations.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
Our culture of compliance helps us 
mitigate risks better and bolsters 
business resilience and stakeholder 
confidence. Our stakeholders, 
including customers, investors, 
regulators, and the community, rely 
on our commitment to regulatory 
compliance and ethical conduct to 
mitigate potential risks.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
We have strong policy and process 
mechanisms across all areas of 
our banking operations to prevent 
fraud and money laundering in 
the digital and physical realms. By 
investing in advanced technologies 
and enhancing our capabilities, we 
strengthen our ability to detect and 
prevent such risks, particularly in 
digital banking.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
98.5% of eligible employees 
completed annual mandatory 
compliance training
	»
4 instances of fines/penalties
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
98.9% of eligible employees 
trained in AML & 
related laws
	»
343 Vigilance cases 
processed and 427 Officials  
were subjected to 
disciplinary action during 
the year
SDG Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
SDG Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
Capital Linkage
Capital Linkage
61

Value creation by the bank
Privacy and Data Security 
Return on Equity and Return to Shareholders
What it Means 
Data privacy and security are 
fundamental to maintaining customer 
trust in today’s digital world. As a 
customer–centric organisation, we 
recognise that safeguarding personal 
data is critical to our reputation and 
business continuity. Data breaches 
can have severe consequences, 
making it essential to constantly 
strengthen our IT security measures 
to mitigate cyber threats and protect 
customer information.
What it Means 
Return on Equity (RoE) and Return to 
Shareholders are material indicators 
of our financial performance and 
reflect the broader impact of our 
sustainability priorities. RoE drives 
investor confidence and informs 
capital allocation, directly influencing 
shareholder value. Our financial 
strength underpins our ability to 
contribute to the economy and meet 
stakeholder expectations. As climate 
change impacts financial outcomes, 
integrating ESG considerations 
becomes essential for effective 
risk mitigation and long–term 
value creation. 
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
The Bank prioritises data security, 
investing in robust capabilities and 
adhering to stringent cyber security 
policies aligned with industry 
best practices and regulations. 
Our Information System Security 
Committee ensures regular 
assessment and validation of controls 
against cyber threats, aligning with 
ISO 27001 and PCI DSS standards.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
We continuously engage with 
shareholders and investors, sharing 
key updates on our operations 
and performance during investor 
and analyst meetings, calls, 
and quarterly and annual result 
announcements. RoE reflects 
our profitability, financial health, 
and business resilience, helping 
us attract investors, gain greater 
access to capital, and create value 
for stakeholders.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
Best–in Class Cyber Security 
Score amongst peers from 
Pioneer cyber security 
rating agency
	»
Zero instances involving loss/
breach of customer data
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
Consolidated RoE – 16.89%
	»
Consolidated RoA – 1.77%
	»
0.33% Net NPA
	»
D42,105 crores Operating Profit
Capital Linkage
SDG Impacted 
SDG Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
Capital Linkage
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
62

Materiality assessment
Customer Experience & Satisfaction 
Sustainable Finance & Responsible Banking
What it Means 
An exceptional customer experience 
and satisfaction are fundamental 
to our success. With millions 
of customers relying on us, we 
are committed to safeguarding 
their interests, ensuring fairness, 
transparency, and the protection 
of their savings and investments. 
Customer feedback and effective 
grievance redressal are vital to 
improve our offerings and service 
delivery continuously.
What it Means 
Sustainable financing strengthens 
our business while contributing to a 
sustainable future for all.  
By integrating ESG factors into 
lending and investment, we direct 
capital toward high–impact projects, 
reduce risks by limiting our exposure 
to sensitive assets, and meet the 
growing demand for responsible 
banking and financing practices.  
This approach aligns with our 
mission, supports broader societal 
goals, sustainable development  
goals and the transition to a  
low–carbon economy.  
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
Leveraging our digital outreach, we 
seek customer feedback through 
regular satisfaction surveys, which 
allows us to gather valuable inputs 
that guide us in continuously 
improving our products and 
services. We also adhere to the 
RBI’s Customer Rights, Grievances 
Redressal, and Compensation 
Policy, ensuring fair treatment for 
our customers.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
Aligned with the UN SDGs, the 
Bank’s Sustainable Financing 
Framework is a blueprint for future 
ESG issuances. It is the first such 
framework by an Indian Bank to 
receive a Second Party Opinion. 
The ESG Working Group actively 
oversees its implementation, 
supported by a dedicated ESG 
Policy for Lending. Together, these 
initiatives strengthen the Bank’s 
overall sustainable financing 
capabilities. Notably, climate risk has 
now been integrated into the Bank’s 
overall risk management framework, 
with oversight at the Board level.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
59 million customers 
	»
159 Retail Net Promoter 
Score on indexed baseline 
of 100, since inception of 
baseline (Q1FY23)
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
Towards our 2030 goal of  
D60,000 crores of incremental 
lending to E&S-aligned sectors 
(2021 onwards), reached INR 
48,412 crores. as of March 
31, 2025
	»
D22,160 crores Green 
lending portfolio
	»
447 proposals assessed under 
the ESG Policy for Lending
	»
Raised $500 million Green 
Loan from IFC with first ever 
blue component
Stakeholders Impacted 
SDGs Impacted 
SDGs Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
Capital Linkage
Capital Linkage
63

Value creation by the bank
Employee Engagement, Development & Wellbeing
What it Means 
Attracting, developing, and retaining 
talent is key to our success.  
We invest in learning, engagement, 
and wellbeing to build a motivated,  
high–performing, and resilient 
workforce. By supporting mental 
health, work–life balance, and safety, 
we foster an inclusive culture that 
draws and nurtures top talent. 
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
Supported by a comprehensive 
HR policy emphasising meaningful 
career experiences, flexible work 
arrangements, and  
outcome–driven performance 
metrics, we are well–positioned 
to drive innovation and growth 
in the banking sector. Through 
progressive HR programs and 
policies, we have built an enabling 
and inclusive work environment that 
supports continuous learning and 
career development.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
6 million+ learning hours 
of employees
	»
Profit per employee stands  
at D0.25 crores
	»
27.7% workforce diversity
	»
5,700+ internal 
mobility movements
	»
D280 crores+ amount spent  
on employee wellbeing
Stakeholders Impacted 
SDGs Impacted 
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
Capital Linkage
Innovation and Digitalisation
What it Means 
Digitalisation and innovation are 
transforming banking, unlocking 
significant opportunities to 
optimise operations, enhance 
customer experience, and stay 
competitive. By strategically 
adopting emerging technologies, 
financial institutions can streamline 
processes, develop advanced 
digital products and services, and 
deliver more personalised, secure 
digital interactions, enhancing user 
experience and building trust.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
The Bank differentiates itself 
through best–in–class banking 
technology, digital innovation, 
and beyond–banking solutions to 
foster business expansion. We have 
enhanced our digital capabilities, 
bolstered our technological 
framework, and leveraged 
advanced analytics to enrich the 
customer experience.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
30 million Registered Mobile 
Banking Users
	»
~15 million+ Registered &  
Active Mobile Banking Users
	»
Axis Mobile application is 
among the top rated mobile 
banking app on Google 
Play store and Apple store 
with rating of 4.7 and 
4.8 respectively
	»
First Indian Bank to be ISO 
certified for its AWS and Azure 
Cloud security
SDG Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Capital Linkage
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
64

Materiality assessment
Financial Inclusion, Literacy & Access
What it Means  
Financial inclusion offers a vital 
opportunity to expand our reach and 
empower communities, reflecting 
our purpose of ‘Banking that leads 
to a more inclusive and equitable 
economy’. By broadening access 
to financial services, we aim to 
serve underserved populations and 
encourage greater participation in the 
formal economy. Financial literacy is a 
key enabler, equipping individuals with 
the knowledge to use financial services 
effectively, thus promoting their  
wellbeing and economic resilience.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
The Bank’s efforts to promote 
financial inclusion have empowered 
millions of individuals, especially 
women, bringing them into the formal 
financial system. The efforts have 
also expanded their access to key 
social security schemes. By promoting 
financial access and protection, the 
Bank is strengthening its reach in 
rural markets, which is contributing 
to sustainable business growth and 
improved customer trust.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
2.8 million women participants in 
microfinance rural lending
	»
13.79 lakh customers in PM Jan 
Dhan Yojna
	»
4.13 lakh customers under Pradhan 
Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana
	»
1.31 lakh customers under 
Pradhan Mantri Jeevan 
Jyoti Yojana
	»
10.05 lakh customers under Atal 
Pension Yojana
Stakeholders Impacted 
SDGs Impacted 
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
Capital Linkage
Impact of Climate Change 
What it Means 
Climate change poses a significant, 
multifaceted risk to the Bank, impacting 
both its operations and the broader 
economy. We recognise the financial 
risks arising from climate change and 
the need for their effective mitigation. 
Emissions from our operations, 
especially digital infrastructure 
and energy use, must be managed 
efficiently to limit costs and avoid 
scrutiny and environmental harm. We 
also acknowledge the broader financial 
risks, including physical and transition 
risks, and the need to adapt to  
climate–related changes to build 
strategic and operational resilience. 
Finally, we recognise the importance 
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
7.90 GJ/FTE energy intensity 
per employee
	»
140,345 tCO2e Scope 1 & 
2 emissions
	»
~72,474 GJ Total  
renewable energy consumed 
	»
~3.27 million trees planted 
(including target of 2 million 
tree plantations, Miyawaki 
plantations and other tree 
plantation programs)
SDGs Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Capital Linkage
of financed emissions from our 
investments and counterparties and 
their role in our climate strategy.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
The Bank is committed to 
developing a proactive mitigation 
and adaptation plan, including 
conducting comprehensive climate 
risk assessments to identify and 
manage potential physical and 
transition risks that may impact 
the business. By integrating 
sustainability criteria into our 
operations and credit appraisal, 
we contribute to the transition to 
a low–carbon economy and ensure 
long–term financial stability.
65

Value creation by the bank
Policy Advocacy and Thought Leadership
What it Means 
The Bank actively shapes the 
financial ecosystem through 
strategic policy advocacy and 
industry thought leadership.  
It contributes to developing robust 
and sustainable regulations by 
providing its expert insights at 
key forums such as the World 
Economic Forum, Securities 
and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI), Confederation of Indian 
Industry (CII), and Federation of 
Indian Chambers of Commerce & 
Industry (FICCI). By advocating for 
policies that promote innovation, 
inclusivity, and resilience, we 
demonstrate our commitment 
to responsible governance and 
sustainable growth.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
The Bank actively engages in 
thought leadership, policy advocacy, 
and sustainable development, 
showcasing its dedication to 
fostering positive change in 
the financial sector. Through 
partnerships with key bodies and 
participation in influential summits, 
the Bank shapes industry practices. 
It promotes resilience in the financial 
ecosystem by leading the sector’s 
sustainable transformation.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
The Bank is an active member 
of several prominent industry 
associations, including the 
Associated Chambers of 
Commerce and Industry of 
India (ASSOCHAM), FICCI, 
CII, the Bengal Chamber 
of Commerce and Industry 
(BCCI), and the Indian Banks’ 
Association (IBA)
	»
To the best of its knowledge, 
either directly or indirectly, 
the Bank has not made any 
monetary contribution/
undertaken any spending 
towards any political 
campaign or political 
organisation in fiscal 2025
SDG Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
For more details, please 
refer to pg. 196 on 
Thought Leadership and 
Policy Advocacy
Capital Linkage
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
66

Materiality assessment
Positive, Actual
Negative, Potential
Community Engagement & Development
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
What it Means 
Engaging with communities in the 
vicinity of our operations allows 
us to understand their needs and 
challenges. This enables us to 
develop targeted initiatives that 
drive positive social impact in 
reflection of our purpose of ‘Banking 
that leads to a thriving community 
and a healthier planet’.
What it Means 
Our commitment to Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) offers 
us a key opportunity, aligned to 
our core philosophy and values, of 
creating a workplace where diverse 
backgrounds are represented, all 
employees feel valued, and equitable 
opportunities are available to all. 
Prioritising DE&I strengthens the 
Bank, drives innovation, and fuels 
long–term value creation.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
A strong institutional framework 
governs the Bank’s CSR programs, 
which are overseen by the CSR 
Committee of the Board and aligned 
to Section 135 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. We also draw inspiration 
from the UN SDGs, ensuring our 
work contributes to broader global 
development objectives. In fiscal 
2025, our initiatives spanned 
geographies and themes from border 
villages to urban slums, natural 
resource management to cancer 
care, and grassroots sports  
to academic research.
Interlinkage with Value Creation 
The Bank’s DE&I approach is rooted 
in empathy, purposeful action, 
and the conviction that individuals 
thrive when they experience a 
true sense of belonging. Beyond 
internal programs, the Bank is 
furthering its external impact on 
DE&I by engaging with communities 
and the corporate ecosystem to 
promote best practices in diversity 
and inclusion, thus driving positive 
change across society.
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
387,467 no. of households 
positively impacted through 
the Sustainable Livelihoods 
Program in fiscal 2025
	»
7.7 lakh+ students positively 
impacted under bank’s 
CSR education program in 
fiscal 2025
	»
1.25 lakhs of women 
empowered through financial 
literacy sessions in fiscal 2025
	»
381 athletes supported
FISCAL 2025 PERFORMANCE
	»
27.7% women representation 
in the Bank’s workforce
	»
34% hiring diversity rate
	»
~33,000 women impacted 
in rural India through Axis 
Women in Motion programs
SDGs Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
SDGs Impacted 
Stakeholders Impacted 
Capital Linkage
Capital Linkage
67

Business 
performance 
review
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
68

Axis Bank delivered a strong performance in fiscal 2025, 
marked by healthy growth across core operating metrics, 
disciplined cost management, and continued improvements 
in asset quality. The Bank’s balanced growth strategy, 
underpinned by a resilient franchise and prudent risk 
practices, helped it navigate market dynamics effectively. 
A sharp focus on customer–centricity, digital innovation, 
and operating efficiency contributed to steady gains in 
profitability and stakeholder value.
69

Dear Shareholders,
Fiscal 2025 was a pivotal year that 
showcased our ability to adapt, lead, 
and innovate in an ever–evolving 
financial landscape—one that tested 
our resilience, sharpened our strategic 
focus, and reaffirmed our commitment 
to building a future–ready, customer–
centric institution. Since the inception 
of our GPS strategy in 2019, we have 
been on a mission to reimagine Axis 
Bank as a stronger, more agile, and 
more inclusive financial institution. 
Through disciplined execution and 
focused investments in people, 
processes, technology, and high–impact 
initiatives, the Bank has evolved into a 
stronger and more resilient organisation 
towards its journey to become an  
“all–weather institution”.
Our unwavering focus on high RAROC 
businesses continues to be a key 
growth engine, propelling us forward 
with strong momentum across Small 
Business Banking, SME, and Mid–
Corporate segments. This year, we 
achieved a record 500 new branches—
an expansion that not only deepens 
our presence but also strengthens 
our ability to serve customers across 
India more meaningfully. Our deposit 
franchise has improved in both quality 
and cost parameters, and on the growth 
front we are focused on building a 
sustainable franchise through multiple 
initiatives taken by the Bank.
We have sustained our position 
among the top players in high–
impact businesses such as Wealth 
Management and Payments, where 
our customer–first approach and 
product innovation continue to set us 
apart. Our flagship digital platforms, 
‘open’ and ‘neo’, have maintained their 
strong positions across Retail and 
Wholesale Banking, respectively, 
reinforcing our role as a frontrunner in 
digital transformation. 
Our commitment to customer 
satisfaction remains steadfast, as 
evidenced by our #2 Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) ranking among large peer 
banks, as independently benchmarked 
by Kantar. This recognition is a 
reflection of the trust and loyalty  
we have earned through consistently 
improving service excellence.
MD & CEO’S STATEMENT
Building a customer obsessed, 
resilient institution
Business Performance Review
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
70

MD & CEO’s statement
We delivered a consolidated Return on 
Assets of 1.77% and Return on Equity 
of 16.89% for fiscal 2025, outcomes 
driven by disciplined execution as 
operating leverage aided healthy core 
operating profit performance. Our 
core operating profit grew 13% y–o–y, 
supported by a best–in–class fee–to–
average–assets ratio, healthy NIMs of 
3.98%, and a prudent 6% growth in 
operating expenses for fiscal 2025.  
Our liquidity position remains strong, 
with an average LCR of 119% for 
quarter ended March 31, 2025.
We remain deeply committed to 
profitable and sustainable growth,  
with calibrated risk management across 
portfolios, as we stay focussed on 
three core areas of execution of our 
GPS strategy:
	»
Becoming a resilient,  
all–weather Franchise
	»
Creating multiplicative forces to 
build competitive advantage
	»
Building for the future 
with a relentless focus on 
driving distinctiveness
Becoming a resilient,  
all–weather Franchise
Our journey to becoming a truly 
resilient, all–weather franchise has 
been powered by consistent execution, 
and strategic investments in talent, 
technology, and scalable initiatives. 
We’ve not only exceeded our GPS 
commitments but also unlocked new 
levers of competitive advantage.
We delivered market–leading growth 
across our identified focus segments, 
while maintaining tight control over 
costs. Our deposit franchise continues 
to strengthen in both quality and 
granularity, reflected in a 340 bps 
improvement in outflow ratio over the 
past three years, now similar to larger 
private peer banks. 
Our customer–first mindset is driving deeper 
engagement and premiumisation across the 
board. From curated offerings to award–winning 
wealth platforms, we are creating differentiated 
experiences that resonate with every segment we 
serve. This has not only helped in exceeding our GPS 
commitments but also in unlocking new levers of 
competitive advantage.
Despite a challenging liquidity 
environment, we have demonstrated 
controlled increase in cost of funds 
over the last eight quarters, with only 7 
bps increase in the last four quarters, a 
testament to our disciplined approach 
and robust acquisition engine.  
Our expansion strategy, product 
innovation, and momentum in salary 
credits are beginning to show early 
signs of traction on the deposit base.
Balancing Growth Ambition with Cost 
Prudence
In a deposit–constrained environment 
which lasted mostly through fiscal 
2025, we prioritised businesses with 
high RAROC opportunities. Our 
Small Business Banking, SME, and 
Mid–Corporate portfolios grew 14% 
y–o–y, now accounting for ~23% of 
the total loan book, up ~740 bps over 
the past four years, a clear indicator 
of our strategic shift towards more 
profitable growth.
Our cost performance was driven 
by three key factors: conscious 
belt tightening, the phasing out of 
integration-related expenses, and a 
contribution from volume. While the 
volume-related benefits may diminish 
as we get the right set of liabilities, the 
focus on belt tightening and ongoing 
optimisation initiatives will persist. 
Operating expenses for fiscal 2025 
grew just 6% y–o–y, a sharp moderation 
from 30% in fiscal 2024. Remarkably, 
despite opening a record 500 new 
branches, staff costs rose by 12%, with 
a net addition of just 121 employees—
driven by digitisation and productivity 
gains in certain areas.
Deepening customer engagement with 
premiumisation gaining ground
Our salaried customer franchise 
continues to deepen, with 18% y–o–y 
growth in salary uploads and a 38% 
y–o–y surge in premium acquisitions in 
the NTB Salary segment by March 31, 
2025. This reflects the success of our 
targeted engagement strategies and 
product personalisation.
The premiumisation of our franchise is 
progressing well. Burgundy AUMs grew 
10% y–o–y, and our Burgundy Private 
segment was recognised as India’s Best 
for Next Gen at the Euromoney Global 
Private Banking Awards 2025. 
We also launched differentiated 
offerings like the ‘ARISE’ savings account 
for women and the Doctors Banking 
Program, reinforcing our commitment  
to delivering curated experiences for 
every customer segment.
71

In the retail unsecured segment, 
including microfinance, we are 
witnessing a normalisation cycle driven 
by increased credit appetite and over–
leverage in certain cohorts. We have 
proactively responded with tighter 
portfolio monitoring, early warning 
triggers, and recalibrated underwriting 
policies to ensure delinquencies 
remain within acceptable thresholds. 
These timely interventions reflect 
our commitment to maintaining asset 
quality while supporting responsible 
credit growth.
Our provisioning and recognition 
standards remain among the most 
conservative in the industry. In Q4 
fiscal 2025, we further tightened our 
classification and upgrade criteria for 
select loan categories. There is no 
economic loss due to this conservative 
stance, but this may marginally impact 
credit costs and recoveries in fiscal 
2026 over fiscal 2025. It reinforces our 
long–term focus on transparency and 
balance sheet resilience.
Our CET–1 ratio, including profits, 
stands at 14.67%, up 93 basis points 
y–o–y, even after accounting for the 
proposed dividend of ₹1 per share–
driven largely by strong internal 
accruals. This capital strength gives us 
the confidence and flexibility to invest 
in future growth while staying well 
above regulatory thresholds.
Business performance review
Driving Scale and Sophistication in 
Wholesale Banking
On the Wholesale Banking front, our 
industry–leading neo platforms and 
bespoke solutions in payments and 
cash management continue to drive 
higher transaction flows and stronger 
current account balances. We further 
solidified our position with ~23% 
market share in IMPS, ~30% in NEFT 
for March 2025, 7% in GST Payments 
and 11% in foreign LC for fiscal 2025. 
In the Merchant Acquiring Business, we 
retained our stature as a top–tier player 
with a 20% terminal market share for 
March 2025.
Fortifying Our Foundation: 
A Stronger Balance Sheet and 
Capital Position
Our balance sheet continues to be 
a pillar of strength, underpinned by 
robust capital adequacy and best 
in class asset quality metrics. We 
maintained a PCR of 75%, further 
complemented by non–NPA provisions 
of ₹11,957 crores, resulting in a 
standard asset coverage ratio of 1.15% 
as on March 31, 2025.
Our net NPA stands at just 0.33%, 
the lowest among large peer banks, 
an outcome of our prudent and 
conservative provisioning practices.
Strengthening the Core: 
Technology, Security, and Scale
We continued to invest in building a 
future–ready technology architecture 
and enhancing capabilities across 
cyber security, fraud control, risk, and 
collections. These investments are 
enabling us to replace fragmented 
legacy systems with scalable, integrated 
platforms that support innovation and 
business growth.
Our digital platforms are a testament to 
this transformation. neo for Corporates 
and Integrated Treasury Management 
are now live, offering seamless digital 
experiences to large enterprises. neo for 
Business, our MSME–focused platform, 
now serves 1.8 lakh customers, while 
neo for Corporates has been extended 
to over 2 lakh clients.
We also launched the UPI–ATM, an 
Android–based cash recycler that 
enables cardless cash withdrawals 
and deposits via UPI—an industry–
first innovation. In partnership with 
NPCI’s Bharat BillPay Limited (NBBL), 
we introduced Bharat Connect for 
Business, a comprehensive solution 
for managing working capital and 
streamlining receivables and payables. 
Our Financial Crime Intelligence 
division now integrates advanced 
analytics, digital monitoring, and fraud 
control, significantly enhancing our 
security posture in an increasingly 
digital world.
We continue to garner several 
key external recognitions for the 
capabilities and initiatives we have 
undertaken successfully in the last 
few years as the Bank was featured 
on TIME’s World Best Companies 
2024, ranking highest among Indian 
financial peers. We received multiple 
accolades at the ICC Emerging Asia 
Banking Awards for profitability, risk 
management, asset quality, and ESG 
We are laying the foundation for a future–ready  
bank–one that is secure, scalable, and built to innovate. 
Our investments in integrated platforms and digital 
infrastructure are enabling us to serve customers with 
greater speed, intelligence, and personalisation.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
72

MD & CEO’s statement
practices. The Axis Bank Foundation 
won gold at FICCI’s Sustainable 
Agriculture Summit 2024, and we were 
named Best Indian Bank at the FT Bank 
of the Year 2024 Awards–a reflection 
of our winning mindset culture 
percolating across the Bank.
Creating multiplicative forces to 
build competitive advantage
At Axis Bank, we believe that true 
competitive advantage is built not just 
through scale, but through synergy. Our 
ability to integrate capabilities across 
businesses, platforms, and partnerships 
has created powerful multiplicative 
forces that position us to lead India’s 
evolving financial landscape over the 
next decade.
Our ‘One Axis’ strategy is a prime 
example of this. The seamless 
integration of the erstwhile Citi 
consumer business was completed in 
July 2024, well ahead of the schedule, 
thus showcasing our execution strength 
and digital readiness. Former Citibank 
customers have now fully transitioned 
to Axis platforms, including the ‘open’ 
by Axis mobile app and internet 
banking. Not only was the migration 
smooth, but digital engagement for Citi 
customers has also surged—monthly 
active users and transaction volumes 
have exceeded pre–integration 
levels, reflecting the strength of our 
digital ecosystem.
Together with our partners, we’re not 
just building products—we’re building 
ecosystems that shape the future of 
banking.
Our commitment to inclusive 
innovation is equally strong.  
Recently, we launched an industry–first 
UPI solution tailored for senior citizens, 
addressing a critical gap in digital 
accessibility. We also partnered with 
the International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) to secure a $500 million loan, 
India’s first–ever blue loan, to scale 
up green and sustainable financing 
towards water and wastewater 
management, reduction of marine 
plastic pollution, restoration of marine 
ecosystems, sustainable shipping, 
eco-friendly tourism, and offshore 
renewable energy. This landmark 
partnership underscores our leadership 
in responsible banking.
We are also deepening our support 
for India’s entrepreneurial ecosystem. 
Our collaboration with a fintech 
company is helping empower SMEs 
with digital tools and financial solutions. 
Meanwhile, Axis Bank has emerged as 
the leading UPI Payer PSP Bank in India, 
commanding a ~33% market share 
by both value and volume for March 
2025. This leadership is powered by our 
partnerships with 15 third–party app 
providers and a robust UPI presence 
across Axis Mobile, BHIM Axis Pay, 
and Freecharge.
The strength of ‘One Axis’ lies in the 
seamless collaboration between the 
Bank and its subsidiaries—each adding 
depth, agility, and innovation to our 
collective journey.
Our subsidiaries continue to be the 
strong engines of value creation.  
In fiscal 2025, our domestic subsidiaries 
delivered a net profit of ₹1,768 crores, 
growing 11% y–o–y, with a 46% return 
on investment. Axis Finance grew its 
AUM by 22%, with a 14.51% ROE and 
a capital adequacy ratio of 20.9%. Axis 
AMC posted a 21% y–o–y PAT growth 
to ₹501 crores, while Axis Securities 
delivered 39% PAT growth to ₹419 
crores. Axis Capital maintained its 
leadership in equity capital markets, 
and Invoicemart has now facilitated 
over ₹1.8 lakh crores in MSME invoice 
financing since inception. 
Max Life Insurance has been 
rebranded as Axis Max Life Insurance 
after receiving the corporate and 
regulatory approval. We believe that 
the integration of two trusted names, 
Max Life and Axis in the financial 
services sector, will empower Axis Max 
Life to achieve its long–term growth 
aspirations through strategic expansion 
beyond metros and tier 1 cities. Being 
India’s fourth–largest life insurer, 
Axis Max Life Insurance continues 
to be among the fastest–growing in 
the sector.
Together, these efforts reflect the 
power of ‘One Axis’ as we continue 
to enhance our ability to create 
exponential value by connecting the 
dots across our ecosystem: customers, 
platforms, partners, and subsidiaries. 
At Axis Bank, we believe true competitive advantage 
is not just built through scale, but through synergy. 
By integrating capabilities across businesses, 
platforms, and partnerships into ‘One Axis’, we are 
creating powerful multiplicative forces that position 
us well to support India’s financial progress.
73

Business performance review
Building for the future with 
a relentless focus on driving 
distinctiveness
Our journey to becoming a future–
ready institution is guided by a 
sharp focus on what sets us apart–
Digital banking, Bharat Banking, and 
Customer Obsession. These pillars 
are not just strategic priorities; they 
are the foundation of our long–
term distinctiveness.
From GenAI to One View: Redefining 
Digital Banking at Scale
Our flagship app, Axis Mobile, 
continues to be among the top–rated 
mobile banking apps with a rating of 
4.7 on Google Play and 4.8 on the 
App Store, now handling over 64% of 
branch service requests through 250+ 
DIY features. With 15 million monthly 
active users and another 15 million 
non–Axis users across Axis Mobile  
and Axis Pay, our digital reach  
is expanding rapidly. 
We’ve launched ‘One View’ on Axis 
Mobile Banking App, ‘open’ that can 
help customers see all their bank 
balances, track every transaction 
undertaken with any other bank, 
monitor borrowings, and view their 
entire investment portfolio—all in one 
seamless, intuitive dashboard. It’s a 
complete financial world, simplified 
and accessible at the fingertips. Our 
efforts were recognised with the award 
from Financial Express for the Best 
Digital Bank (Private), reinforcing our 
position as a digital–first, customer–
centric bank.
To drive operational efficiency,  
we launched Axis Deep Intelligence 
(ADI)—a GenAI–powered internal 
chatbot now live across 5,500 
branches, supporting over 
100,000 employees. Alongside, 
we continue to embed AI/ML, 
automation, and analytics to 
enhance customer engagement and 
workforce productivity.
Our employee platform ‘Siddhi’ serves 
as a unified interface for over 90,000 
employees and partners, offering 
real–time insights and personalised 
recommendations. Built on a modern 
tech stack and integrated with 35+ 
systems, ‘Siddhi’ delivers advanced 
analytics and nudges that have led to 
a ~30% uplift in key metrics like TD 
bookings, MF transactions, and credit 
card sales, along with a ~10–point 
higher NPS for ‘Siddhi’–led journeys.
Our personalisation engine, live for 
over three years, scans over 30 million 
transactions daily, powering contextual 
insights for the personal finance 
module in our mobile banking app—
driving significant conversion across 
select products.
Bharat Banking: Expanding Reach, 
Empowering Communities
Our Bharat Banking franchise continues 
to deliver healthy growth, with 
advances and deposits rising 7% and 
9% respectively from rural and 
semi–urban (RuSu) markets. We 
expanded our distribution network 
to 2,736 RuSu branches, supported 
by a 28,000+ strong CSC Village 
Level Entrepreneur network. In fiscal 
2025 alone, we added over 250 new 
branches in these markets.
Sparsh 2.0: Redefining Customer 
Experience
Sparsh 2.0 is redefining customer 
engagement—simplifying experiences 
through automation and digitisation 
to drive loyalty and growth. With 
tools like ADI (our GenAI platform) 
and Kaleidoscope (a unified customer 
view), we’re empowering employees 
to deliver faster, smarter service. Our 
Retail Bank NPS has jumped from 
100 to 159 in three years, while rising 
brand consideration reflects the deeper 
emotional connect we’re building 
with customers.
Empowering People, Enabling 
Progress
At Axis Bank, we believe that our 
people are our greatest strength. 
We continue to nurture an engaging, 
inclusive, and high–performance 
culture through bold, future–forward 
initiatives. Programs like Thrive and 
GIG–A, both industry–firsts, are 
redefining how we attract, retain, and 
empower talent. 
We are building for the future with a relentless 
focus on what sets us apart. With Digital Banking, 
Bharat Banking, and Customer Obsession as 
our core pillars, we’re creating a franchise that’s 
distinctive by design and built to lead.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
74

MD & CEO’s statement
These efforts are reflected in our 
consistently high employee advocacy 
scores and the many recognitions we’ve 
earned—including being certified as a 
Great Place to Work, ranked among 
the Top 50 Companies in BFSI, and 
securing the #5 spot in Fortune India’s 
Future Ready Workplaces.
We’ve significantly scaled up our 
campus and academia partnerships, 
building a strong talent pipeline for 
the future. This year, we also achieved 
a milestone in our Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion journey by hiring a 
record number of women—affirming 
our commitment to building a more 
balanced and representative workforce.
Axis for Good: Strengthening 
Communities, Sustaining Futures
We remain deeply committed to 
advancing a model of banking that 
promotes inclusivity, equity, and 
environmental stewardship. Through 
our responsible corporate practices, 
we strive to uplift communities and 
contribute to a more sustainable future. 
Our efforts have positively impacted 
over 2 million individuals, broadened 
educational opportunities, and 
nurtured athletic talent from grassroots 
to Olympic levels. These initiatives 
reflect our ongoing dedication to 
inclusive growth and a robust ESG 
framework across the organisation.
The Bank has significantly scaled up 
the integration of ESG into its overall 
business strategy and agenda. Some 
of the ESG commitments include, 
scaling down exposure to carbon–
intensive sectors, including Coal and 
Thermal Power, reaching 30% female 
representation in our workforce by 
fiscal 2027 with 27.7% diversity ratio 
achieved by the end of fiscal 2025. 
Incremental financing of ₹60,000 
crores under corporate banking 
to sectors with positive social and 
environmental outcomes, by fiscal 2030 
with ~₹48,412 crores sanctioned by the 
end of fiscal 2025. Our commitment 
to sustainability continues to be 
recognised on global platforms. Axis 
Bank was on the FTSE4Good Index 
for the eighth consecutive year. The 
Bank maintains an ‘A’ Rating by MSCI 
ESG Ratings and  has improved its S&P 
Global ESG (DJSI) score by 10 points. 
It has an improved ESG Risk Rating of 
19.4 as of last full update - March 2025 
by Sustainalytics. 
Staying the Course, Building for 
the Future
In fiscal 2025, we made bold and 
deliberate choices, prioritising 
profitability over growth as we 
navigated a complex macroeconomic 
and liquidity landscape with discipline 
and foresight. Even as we exercised 
We are leading with purpose—empowering 
communities, enabling livelihoods, and embedding 
sustainability into every facet of our business.
prudence, we continued to invest 
meaningfully in building a more 
sustainable, future–ready Axis Bank.
As we step into fiscal 2026, we are 
optimistic. With improving liquidity 
conditions and a supportive regulatory 
environment, the operating landscape 
is turning more favourable. We believe 
that large, well–capitalised banks like 
Axis with strong digital capabilities, 
innovative product suites, are best 
suited to seize the opportunity.
Our relentless focus on customer 
obsession, best–in–class digital 
platforms across Retail and Wholesale, 
and expanding distribution in Bharat 
gives us the edge to capture India’s 
next wave of growth. Our leadership 
in Digital and Payments continues 
to unlock synergies and agility 
across segments.
Over the past six years, we have 
transformed Axis into a stronger, more 
consistent, and resilient franchise. With 
every stride in technology, service,  
and culture, we are building not just  
a bank—but an all–weather institution, 
ready to thrive in every season.
Warm regards, 
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
75

Economic Environment
The slowdown in India’s economic 
growth during fiscal 2025 was 
primarily due to unintended fiscal 
and monetary tightening.  
Two main fiscal challenges emerged: 
the union government’s fiscal deficit 
decreased by 80 basis points of 
GDP in both fiscal 2024 and fiscal 
2025. Additionally, while spending 
was front–loaded in fiscal 2024, it 
was backloaded in fiscal 2025 due 
to general elections, leading to a 
prolonged lull in government activity. 
Fortunately, these challenges are 
now easing, with the deficit in fiscal 
2026 expected to decrease by only 
40 basis points of GDP as spending 
patterns stabilise. 
On the monetary side, after 
accounting for a significant merger 
in the banking sector during fiscal 
2024, non–food credit growth 
declined from 16.3% in March 2024 
to 10.9% y–o–y in March 2025. This 
considerable drop was widespread, 
not limited to the unsecured loans 
segment, and was primarily driven by 
supply factors. It was prompted by 
regulatory concerns over high loan–
to–deposit ratios (LDR) at certain 
banks. Consequently, 
as banks reduced credit growth, 
they also slowed down deposit 
creation, exacerbating the weak 
liquidity injections from the RBI. 
Moreover, the central bank’s foreign 
exchange interventions  
($ sales) resulted in a liquidity drain 
of about D5 lakh crores, further 
increasing liquidity stress.
However, actions taken by the RBI, 
such as cutting the cash reserve ratio 
(CRR), injecting durable liquidity 
through bond purchases and 
buy–sell foreign exchange swaps, 
reducing repo rates, rolling back risk 
weights on lending to non–banking 
financial companies (NBFCs) and 
microfinance institutions (MFIs), 
and implementing looser liquidity 
coverage ratio (LCR) regulations, 
have fostered a more favourable 
environment for growth. With 
inflation now falling below 4%,  
the policy focus has shifted firmly 
to stimulating growth. The banking 
system remains well–capitalised 
to support a growing economy, 
showing early indications of a 
rebound in private investments, 
while credit risks appear to be 
under control.
Business performance review
We remain agile and 
responsive to the risks 
posed by a challenging 
global environment while 
also capitalising on the 
opportunities presented by 
a strong and resilient Indian 
economy. We have raised 
our compliance thresholds 
to ensure the best interests 
of our stakeholders and 
customers, even as we aim 
for industry–beating growth.
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
E X TERNAL ENVIRONMENT
Navigating a shifting 
world order
76

External environment
Global Economic Outlook
The global economic system that 
has functioned since World War II 
is now undergoing a reset.  
The Trump administration views 
its political role as addressing 
the significant rise in income 
and wealth inequality in the US, 
the decline of its manufacturing 
sector, and what it considers to 
be the misuse of the multilateral 
institutions it has supported for 
the last 80 years. Consequently, 
it has initiated structural changes 
in areas such as trade, taxes, 
regulations, immigration, currency, 
and energy markets, among others. 
Negotiations around these issues 
and the development of new 
engagement models are expected 
to be contentious, potentially 
resulting in an extended policy 
vacuum. The only limit on the 
speed of this transition appears to 
be market volatility. 
When uncertainty reaches a 
certain threshold, markets can 
become chaotic. Fear of such 
chaos has led to a retreat from 
excessively disruptive actions 
on several occasions. Despite 
some tariff rollbacks and ongoing 
discussions to further reduce them, 
the prevailing uncertainty is likely to 
hinder global growth as:
	»
Investment decisions will be 
deferred until there is more 
clarity regarding tariffs and 
exchange rates. 
	»
Higher tariffs result in fiscal 
tightening, among other 
factors, which will lead to 
reduced consumption. 
	»
Financial conditions will tighten 
due to uncertainty.
Relevant Risks
Business Risk
Credit Risk
Liquidity Risk
Market Risk
Opportunities Identified 
The Indian economy is expected 
to maintain strong growth despite 
challenges from abroad. It is among 
the least affected globally, with 
minimal direct impacts from initial 
US tariffs. There is also potential for 
shared gains due to the increasing 
momentum of the ‘China + 1’ trend. 
Enhancements in competitive 
areas, such as infrastructure and 
the electronics value chain, are 
anticipated to contribute positively. 
India’s service exports, especially 
from global capability centres, remain 
strong. The underlying factors driving 
this include the disaggregation of 
global service value chains, a rapid 
boost in global cross–border telecom 
capacity, and a rise in remote working, 
all of which are expected to continue. 
The recovery in the domestic 
real estate market, along with the 
alleviation of various challenges that 
hindered economic growth last year, 
is likely to bolster credit demand. 
With improving liquidity conditions 
and the implementation of rate cuts, 
credit growth should rise from its 
current state. However, the significant 
uncertainty from US trade policies 
and fluctuations in financial markets 
may delay corporate investments and 
weaken their demand for loans.
Our Strategic Response
The Bank navigates the global economic reset with a calibrated strategy that balances prudence and 
opportunity. As uncertainties around trade, tariffs, and capital flows persist, we are strengthening our risk 
management systems to address liquidity, market, and credit risks. At the same time, we are capitalising on 
India’s relative insulation from global disruptions by deepening support for sectors aligned with the  
‘China + 1’ strategy, such as infrastructure, electronics, and services exports. Our focused lending to global 
capability centres, SMEs, and real estate segments allows us to capture the revival of domestic demand. We 
are also enhancing agility through diversified credit portfolios and dynamic liquidity management.
77

Business performance review
Technology Evolution and Artificial Intelligence
Opportunities Identified 
	»
Scale digital lending, collections, 
and customer service through  
next–generation platforms.
	»
Drive operational efficiency and 
superior customer engagement 
via AI–led IT operations, 
marketing automation, and 
conversational interfaces.
	»
Lead in future–ready payments 
by leveraging advancements in 
UPI 2.0 and Central Bank Digital 
Currency (CBDC) ecosystems.
Information and Cyber 
Security Risks
Relevant Risks
Technology Risk
Regulatory and 
Compliance Risk
Operational Risk
The rapid evolution of technology, 
led by advancements in Artificial 
Intelligence (AI), machine learning, 
cloud computing, and blockchain, 
fundamentally reshapes the 
global financial ecosystem. 
Generative AI is paving the way 
for enhanced productivity by 
improving decision–making, 
personalising engagement 
on a large scale, streamlining 
operations, and driving innovation 
growth. Financial institutions 
worldwide are integrating AI into 
essential functions such as credit 
assessment, fraud detection, and 
customer engagement, as digital 
adoption accelerates across 
various regions, driven by mobile 
banking, UPI transactions, and 
cohesive digital ecosystems.
An emerging trend in this 
transformation is the rise of 
AI–first app experiences, where 
applications are designed from the 
ground up with AI at their core. 
These applications leverage  
real–time data, predictive 
intelligence, and conversational 
interfaces to deliver  
hyper–personalised, intuitive, and 
proactive financial services,  
redefining how users interact 
with digital platforms. In India, the 
momentum of digital transformation 
remains unparalleled. Initiatives such 
as the Jan Dhan–Aadhaar–Mobile 
(JAM) trinity, DigiLocker, and the 
Unified Payments Interface (UPI) have 
revolutionised access to financial 
services, promoting significant 
financial inclusion and facilitating 
over 150 billion transactions in fiscal 
2025. Scheduled Commercial Banks 
(SCBs) increasingly leverage artificial 
intelligence, predictive analytics, 
customer service automation, 
and cloud–native architectures to 
enhance innovation and operational 
resilience. Notable milestones, 
including the scaling up of the Central 
Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) 
pilot and the 24/7 availability of 
payment systems, reaffirm India’s 
commitment to establishing a resilient, 
customer–centric digital economy 
governed by robust ethical and 
regulatory frameworks.
Our Strategic Response
We are enhancing our digital lending, collections, and customer service capabilities through next–generation 
platforms, including SARAL for collections, Axis Digital Loans, and the expansion of ‘open’ by Axis Bank, our 
proprietary digital banking platform. Leveraging AI innovations like Adi (our Generative AI chatbot) and the 
Kaleidoscope real–time CXM platform, we improve operational efficiency, enable real–time query resolutions, 
and deliver hyper–personalised customer journeys. Concurrently, the Bank is at the forefront of India’s 
payment revolution by reinforcing its leadership in UPI 2.0, introducing new offerings such as Gold on UPI, 
and engaging in the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) pilot initiatives.
78
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25

External environment
Climate Resilience and ESG Integration
Opportunities Identified 
	»
Tap into the growing demand for 
green bonds, transition finance, 
renewable energy lending, and 
sustainability–linked loans.
	»
Leverage rising ESG–focused 
investor pools and green 
capital inflows to strengthen 
funding diversity and enhance 
brand equity.
	»
Offer differentiated customer 
solutions across Retail and 
Corporate banking in sectors 
such as electric mobility, clean 
power generation, rooftop 
solar for MSMEs, and green 
home loans.
In fiscal 2025, the imperative to 
build climate resilience and embed 
ESG principles into core business 
strategies gained unprecedented 
momentum. Globally, regulatory 
focus on climate–related 
financial risks intensified, with 
the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision (BCBS) advancing 
efforts to integrate climate risks 
into prudential standards. 
In India, the government’s 
‘Amrit Kaal’ vision catalysed 
transformative investments 
in renewable energy, digital 
innovation, and sustainable 
infrastructure, reinforcing the 
country’s leadership in green 
development. Regulatory 
momentum continued to build, 
such as SEBI mandating reasonable 
assurance on select BRSR Core 
KPIs to enhance the credibility of 
sustainability reporting. 
At the same time, the RBI introduced 
its final framework for Climate–related 
Financial Disclosures, laying the 
groundwork for a more systematic 
approach to managing climate risks 
within the financial sector. Our key 
priorities include implementing 
climate risk stress testing frameworks, 
enhancing transparency through 
robust ESG disclosures, and scaling 
financing solutions supporting positive 
environmental and social outcomes.
Impact of Climate  
Risk–related aspects on 
Credit Risk
Relevant Risks
Operational Risk
Our Strategic Response
The Bank is capitalising on sustainable finance by expanding its portfolio in ESG-aligned sectors and 
activities, actively raising green capital and piloting new green initiatives in both retail and wholesale banking. 
We engage with ESG–focused investors and leverage green capital to diversify funding, enhance balance 
sheet resilience, and reaffirm our role as a responsible institution. Simultaneously, we provide tailored 
financial solutions for sectors like electric mobility, solar energy, clean infrastructure, and sustainable MSMEs.
Our ESG governance framework has been strengthened through Board–level oversight, cross–functional 
integration, and incorporation of climate risk into credit, investment, and risk assessment processes. 
We refine sectoral exposure assessments to identify climate–sensitive portfolios and have introduced 
environmental risk screens for high–impact industries. We deepen client partnerships by co–developing 
transition finance pathways and helping borrowers align with India’s climate objectives. With ongoing 
investment in capacity building, ESG data digitisation, and collaborations, Axis Bank is addressing climate 
risks and promoting a low–carbon financial future. These actions are vital to our long–term vision of creating 
sustainable, purpose–driven value that meets stakeholder expectations.
79

Business performance review
Cyber Security and Data Privacy
Opportunities Identified 
	»
Enhance digital trust and 
brand equity by delivering 
secure, privacy–first banking 
experiences aligned with rising 
regulatory expectations.
	»
Strengthen cyber resilience by 
leveraging centralised threat 
intelligence frameworks, 
such as Sectoral Security 
Operations Centre (SSOC), for 
proactive risk management and 
industry leadership.
In fiscal 2025, the cyber security 
and data privacy landscape 
became increasingly complex, 
shaped by the accelerating pace 
of digital adoption, the rise of 
sophisticated threat actors, 
and heightened regulatory 
scrutiny. Financial institutions 
worldwide faced growing 
demands to strengthen digital 
resilience, protect sensitive 
customer information, and ensure 
uninterrupted service delivery 
amid evolving threat environments. 
Regulatory developments, 
including enhanced incident 
reporting norms, stricter cloud 
security protocols, India’s Digital 
Personal Data Protection Act 
(DPDPA), and SEBI’s Cyber 
security and Cyber Resilience 
Framework (CSCRF), reinforced 
the criticality of robust, end–
to–end cyber security frameworks 
that are proactive, adaptive, and 
resilient. Investment in multi–layered 
defence architectures, AI–driven 
threat intelligence, cloud security 
certifications, and employee cyber 
security awareness programs has 
become essential to mitigating 
emerging risks and safeguarding 
stakeholder trust. 
Our Strategic Response
We have invested significantly in building a robust, multi–layered security architecture powered by  
AI–driven threat detection, real–time monitoring, and cloud security enhancements. Our ISO certifications 
for AWS and Azure cloud security, as well as our best–in–class BitSight security ratings, reaffirm our 
leadership in digital trust. Leveraging sectoral initiatives like the SSOC, we are enhancing threat intelligence 
sharing and strengthening our ability to respond swiftly to evolving cyber risks.
Relevant Risks
Information and Cyber 
security Risk
Technology Risk
Operational Risk
Regulatory and 
Compliance Risk
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
80

External environment
Talent and the Future of Work
Opportunities Identified 
	»
Reimagine roles and workflows 
by deploying AI–assisted 
productivity tools to enhance 
efficiency, innovation, and 
customer responsiveness.
	»
Deepen employee engagement 
and organisational agility 
through learning–led internal 
mobility and inclusive 
leadership development.
	»
Attract and retain  
future–ready talent by building 
a culture anchored in trust, 
purposeful growth, and 
digital empowerment.
The cultivation of talent, the 
promotion of inclusion, and the 
provision of future–ready career 
paths have emerged as fundamental 
components in the creation of 
sustainable stakeholder value. As the 
dynamics of the work environment 
progress, the necessity to establish 
dynamic, empowered, and diverse 
workforces has never been more 
pronounced. In fiscal 2025, the 
labour landscape in India experienced 
rapid acceleration, propelled by the 
increasing demand for digital fluency, 
readiness for artificial intelligence, 
hybrid and flexible working models, 
and a heightened emphasis on 
employee wellbeing. 
The Banking, Financial Services, 
and Insurance (BFSI) sector 
encountered significant competition 
for specialised talent in technology, 
risk and compliance, environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) factors, 
cyber security, and data analytics. 
Organisations responded by expanding 
their digital learning ecosystems, 
integrating artificial intelligence and 
future skills into employee development 
initiatives, enhancing internal mobility 
programs, and making substantial 
investments in frontline leadership 
development. Initiatives designed to 
promote mental health, workplace 
resilience, diversity, equity, and inclusion 
(DE&I) were prioritised as essential pillars 
of organisational strategy. 
Our Strategic Response
At Axis Bank, we are committed to shaping the future of work through innovation, inclusion, and agility.  
By leveraging AI–powered tools across the employee lifecycle, from talent acquisition and assessments to  
HR query resolution and employee listening, we are enhancing decision–making, reducing turnaround time, and 
improving employee experience at scale.
Internal career growth is a key pillar of our talent strategy. Platforms like Catalyst under the ‘Thrive’ program have 
fortified our mobility framework, resulting in increased internal movements and cross–functional transitions. 
Coupled with leadership development programs such as 1000 Change Leaders, High–performing Leaders, and 
BetterUp Coaching, we are nurturing a pipeline of future–ready leaders.
Our flexible work model, including GIG–A Opportunities and hybrid schedules, empowers remote associates and 
freelancers to join the workforce and contribute. Through these initiatives, we have broadened our talent reach, 
enhanced diversity, and supported work–life balance without compromising on productivity.
We have also reimagined learning through role–based, digital–first platforms that focus on future skills in 
areas such as ESG finance, compliance, and digital banking, delivered through a unified HCM suite across 
all subsidiaries.
By combining advanced technology with inclusive and human–centric practices, Axis Bank is building a resilient, 
future–ready workforce equipped to lead through change and deliver sustained value.
Human Capital Risk
Conduct Risk
Relevant Risks
Operational Risk
81

Business performance review
Regulatory and Policy Landscape
Opportunities Identified 
	»
Lead responsible digital 
innovation by embedding 
compliance–by–design 
across products, services, 
and operations.
	»
Strengthen investor and 
stakeholder trust through 
transparent, high–quality ESG 
and cyber security disclosures.
In fiscal 2025, the regulatory and 
policy landscape for the banking 
sector underwent substantial 
evolution, reflecting an intensified 
focus on financial stability, digital 
innovation, climate resilience, and 
consumer protection. The Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) introduced key 
measures, including enhanced 
cyber security, outsourcing of 
IT services, and IT governance 
risk, controls, and assurance 
guidelines. The RBI also finalised 
the framework for climate–related 
financial disclosures, tightened 
macroprudential norms around 
unsecured lending, and reinforced 
liquidity management standards 
to mitigate emerging systemic 
risks. In early 2025, the Ministry 
of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MeitY) released 
the Draft Digital Personal Data 
Protection (DPDP) Rules, 2025, for 
public consultation. These rules 
are intended to provide detailed 
guidelines for implementing the 
DPDP Act, covering data fiduciary 
obligations, consent mechanisms, data 
principal rights, and establishing the 
Data Protection Board of India. 
In parallel, the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI) operationalised 
reasonable assurance requirements 
for select Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) 
Core metrics for the top 150 listed 
entities, significantly strengthening the 
credibility of corporate sustainability 
disclosures. Internationally, regulatory 
momentum on AI governance, 
sustainable finance, and digital 
assets continued to influence policy 
thinking in India, reinforcing the 
need for integrated risk management 
and responsible innovation across 
the sector.
Our Strategic Response
The Bank employs a compliance–by–design approach across its products, services, and operations to lead 
in responsible digital innovation. By integrating regulatory requirements, the bank guarantees that its new 
offerings in digital banking, artificial intelligence, payment solutions, and open banking are developed with 
strong security, privacy, and governance frameworks. At the same time, the Bank is building investor and 
stakeholder trust by enhancing the quality and transparency of its environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) and cyber security disclosures. This includes proactive alignment with the SEBI’s updated BRSR 
assurance norms, the RBI’s new Outsourcing of IT Services and IT Governance Risk, Control, and Assurance 
guidelines, and global best practices in climate and data reporting.
Regulatory and 
Compliance Risk
Relevant Risks
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
82

External environment
Making a Positive Change in Society
Opportunities Identified 
	»
Expand financial services 
access by tapping into 
rural, semi–urban, and 
underbanked markets.
	»
Promote inclusive growth by 
providing targeted support to 
women entrepreneurs, small 
businesses, and community 
development initiatives.
	»
Strengthen brand trust and 
loyalty by aligning with societal 
expectations of sustainability, 
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
In fiscal 2025, India’s social 
landscape was shaped by 
accelerated digital adoption, 
rising aspirations across rural 
and semi–urban markets, and 
a heightened focus on financial 
inclusion, education, healthcare, 
and sustainability. The rapid 
expansion of mobile connectivity, 
digital payment ecosystems, and 
government–led social welfare 
programs continued to drive 
broader economic empowerment, 
particularly among underserved 
communities. Concurrently, 
societal expectations regarding 
corporate responsibility, 
community engagement, and 
advancing diversity, equity, and 
inclusion (DE&I) intensified, 
influencing how businesses engage 
with stakeholders and contribute 
to social development.
Against this backdrop, the financial 
services sector fosters inclusive 
growth. Institutions are expanding 
their reach into Bharat markets, 
empowering small businesses and 
rural entrepreneurs, promoting 
digital financial literacy, and designing 
products tailored to underserved 
segments. In parallel, industry–led 
initiatives focused on livelihood 
generation, women’s empowerment, 
education, healthcare access, 
and sustainable development are 
becoming central to corporate 
citizenship strategies.
Our Strategic Response
The Bank strategically enhances its presence across the Bharat markets through its dedicated Bharat 
Banking franchise, which offers customised financial solutions for rural and semi–urban customers.  
We persist in empowering women entrepreneurs and Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) by 
augmenting access to affordable credit, skill development, and financial literacy initiatives. We implement 
expansive livelihood, education, and healthcare programs aligned with national development priorities 
under our CSR focus. Moreover, by profoundly integrating sustainability, diversity, and community 
engagement into our corporate ethos, we strengthen stakeholder trust and cultivate a socially responsible, 
future–ready institution.
Business Risk
Relevant Risks
Operational Risk
Reputation Risk
83

Business performance review
STR ATEGY IN AC TION
Strengthening our 
House of GPS
Rooted in our core 
philosophy of Growth, 
Profitability and 
Sustainability, the House 
of GPS has evolved into a 
powerful engine that drives 
us forward. In fiscal 2025, 
we continued to enrich 
this strategic framework, 
enabling us to deliver  
with distinctiveness  
while strengthening our 
digital leadership and  
execution excellence.
In 2019, we launched our ‘Growth 
Profitability and Sustainability’ 
strategy, also known as the  
‘House of GPS’, to provide a 
unifying framework to our 
versatile team, who serve as 
a cornerstone of our strength 
and adaptability.  
The overall strategy of the Bank 
and that of its specific businesses 
and functions are aligned with 
our core philosophy – Growth, 
Profitability, and Sustainability. 
As part of our annual review of the 
House of GPS in 2021, we added 
two elements of distinctiveness 
– ‘Sparsh’ (Deliver world–class 
customer experience) and ‘Bharat’ 
(Build India’s most profitable 
Bharat banking franchise), 
with an overarching focus on 
‘Digital’ (Leadership in digital and 
technology).
Then, in 2023 we bolstered our 
Sustainability pillar by including 
four key themes for the Bank – 
‘Deposit Mobilisation’, ‘People 
Proposition’, ‘Operational Risk & 
Compliance Culture’, and  
‘Execution Excellence’. 
In 2024, we added ‘Leveraging 
Emerging Technologies’, which 
includes Generative AI and Intelligent 
Automation, as one of the key 
enablers for the Bank. 
To build on the ‘Execution Excellence’ 
theme as part of the Sustainability 
pillar, the Bank has set up a dedicated 
project management team that 
has started deploying appropriate 
execution frameworks to improve  
the pace and efficiency  
of project execution.
The House of GPS, as it stands today, 
continues to reflect our aspirations 
and remains relevant. We have a 
responsibility to propel our business 
towards success by prioritising the 
GPS strategy and the key themes,  
as well as focusing on our values.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
84

Strategy in action
We have strengthened our ‘House of GPS’ with distinctiveness and identified focus 
themes to taking charge
GPS strategy
Sustained, Consistent Financial 
Outperformance
	»
Deliver world class customer 
experience led by project ‘Sparsh’
	»
Build India’s most profitable 
Bharat Banking franchise
	»
Leadership in Digital with  
best–in–class capabilities
Profitability
Structural improvement in quality 
of earnings with consistent delivery 
positions us well for the future
Growth
	»
Deposit Mobilisation to drive loan growth 
	»
Driving higher growth in high RAROC 
focus segments
	»
Creating multiplicative forces to build 
competitive advantage
	»
Strengthened Governance and Culture across 
operational risk, audit and compliance
	»
Strong balance sheet with best–in–class asset 
quality metrics and self–sustaining capital 
structure to fund growth
	»
Our cutting–edge data analytics capabilities 
and leadership in technology continue to 
accelerate our distinctiveness journey
	»
Enhancing People Proposition and 
Executional Excellence
Our Core 
Values
Customer 
Centricity
Ethics
Ownership
Transparency
Teamwork
Identified areas of distinctiveness with 
focus on Customer Obsession ‘SPARSH’ 
and serving the high growth potential RuSu 
markets as part of Bharat Banking
Leadership in Digital and Technology to drive 
productivity, scale and profitability
Sustainability
Bolstered the Sustainability elements 
with focus on Executional Excellence, 
People Proposition, and Operational Risk 
and Compliance
85

Business performance review
Growth
	»
Led by our focus on building 
granularity across businesses and 
strong focus on execution, we have 
delivered strong growth across our 
focused segments
	»
We saw a 10% y–o–y increase in 
overall deposits and 14% y–o–y 
increase in term deposits; this 
growth was complemented by 
an adequate liquidity buffer, with 
an average LCR of 119% for the 
quarter ended on March 31, 2025 
	»
Amongst our focus segments, SBB 
(Small Business Banking) + SME 
Profitability
	»
We delivered a healthy operating 
performance, with Net interest 
income growing by 9% y–o–y  
and Operating profit growing by 
13% y–o–y
	»
Our cost–to–assets ratio remained 
stable at 2.46% fiscal 2025 as we 
continued to focus on building  
cost–consciousness across the Bank
(Small and Medium Enterprises) 
+ MC (Mid Corporate) have 
collectively scaled up significantly, 
delivering a CAGR of 26% (from 
fiscal 2021 to fiscal 2025) despite 
the tightening of our risk standards; 
focus segments (SBB+SME+MC) 
of the Bank has seen improvement 
in contribution mix from 15.3% to 
22.7% of overall book over the last 
four years
	»
We are now the 4th largest credit 
card player, issued 3.47 million 
credit cards in fiscal 2025 and 
attained CIF (Cards in force) market 
share of 13.7%
	»
The Bank’s wealth management 
business is among the largest in 
India with AUM of ₹5.92 trillion as 
at end of March 31, 2025 that grew 
10% y–o–y
	»
With a rating of 4.7 on Google Play 
Store and 4.8 on iOS App Store, 
‘open’ by Axis Bank ranks among 
the world’s highest rated mobile 
banking app, doubling up as our 
largest branch
	»
Created multiplicative forces 
through the unification under 
‘One Axis’, partnerships and 
new age tech platforms to win 
across businesses
	»
We continued to build granularity 
in our fee income with granular fee 
(Retail, Transaction banking, Trade, 
Forex and Financial institutional 
payments–related fee) constituting 
89% of overall fees, with overall fee 
income growing by 11% y–o–y
	»
Total PAT of operating subsidiaries 
grew by 11% y–o–y and return 
on investments in domestic 
subsidiaries stood at 46%
22.7%
Contribution of focus segments 
to the overall book
8.93%
Growth in Net Interest 
Income (NII) in fiscal 2025
14% 
Increase in term deposits 
y–o–y in fiscal 2025
2.46% 
Costs–to–assets ratio in 
fiscal 2025
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
86

Sustainability
	»
We have bolstered our risk 
frameworks and institutionalised 
culture changes, which gives us 
confidence that the franchise will 
remain resilient through cycles
	»
We added a layer between our 
1st line of defence (CAROs) and 
assurance functions – OH&C 
(Operational Health & Compliance) 
team and Financial Crime 
Intelligence Unit
	»
Best–in–class digital and analytics 
capabilities, coupled with our 
strategy to leverage new emerging 
technologies such as GenAI, puts us 
on a path to become India’s  
best tech bank; we became the  
1st Indian Bank to be ISO certified 
for AWS and Azure Cloud security, 
and roll–out of MS GenAI Co–pilot
	»
100% Agile adoption for all relevant 
systems, thereby driving business 
value through agile transformation
	»
Inherent strengths in Bharat 
Banking give us the right to win 
in RuSu (Rural and Semi–urban 
markets) – 2,736 Bharat Banking 
branches (as on March 31, 2025), 
7% y–o–y growth in rural advances 
in fiscal 2025
	»
Our tools to set us apart in the 
next decade:
	
Sparsh
	
Our customer obsession program 
has yielded results; our Retail Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) of 159 (as 
on March 31, 2025) has moved 
up by 59 points since the baseline 
score in Q1FY23
7%
Growth in Bharat Banking 
Advances in fiscal 2025
90,000+ 
Active users of ‘Siddhi’ app, 
which has 30+ product journeys
	
Siddhi
	
Our super app, which empowers 
Axis colleagues to engage 
seamlessly with customers, has 
90,000+ active users and 30+ 
product journeys
	»
We have a distinctive people 
proposition, ‘Thrive’, which helps 
us retain high quality talent to 
‘run’/‘change’ the Bank
Our five core values viz. Customer 
Centricity, Ethics, Ownership, 
Transparency and Teamwork continue 
to underpin all activities of the Bank.
Governance
Social
Green 
Operations
Sustainable 
Financing
~D22,160 crores
Green lending portfolio
~51,000 crores
Total value of proposals 
reviewed under the 
ESG policy for lending 
in fiscal 2025
D500 million
raised by partnering 
with IFC to scale 
up green and blue 
financing in India – IFC’s 
first–ever blue 
investment in India and 
the India’s first blue loan 
issued by a financial 
institution
~18,732 tCO2e
GHG emissions  
avoided annually by 
various operational  
eco–efficiency initiatives
34.48 Metric Tons
Of Battery waste 
recycled (through 
authorised vendors)
2 MW
Captive solar power 
plant, reducing our  
carbon emissions 
2.8 Million
Women participants 
in microfinance  
rural lending
387,467
Households 
positively impacted 
in fiscal 2025 
under the Bank’s 
flagship Sustainable 
Livelihoods program
27.7%
Workforce diversity
1st Indian Bank
To constitute an  
ESG Committee of  
the Board
61.54%
Independent Directors 
on the Board
98%+
Of eligible  employees 
trained in AML & 
related laws
Our ESG Progress and Aspirations
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
Strategy in action
87

KE Y PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS
Sustained momentum, 
strong fundamentals
Axis Bank delivered steady growth in fiscal 2025, with a five–year market share gain 
of 5.5% in deposits and 5.7% in advances. A 46% return on domestic subsidiaries, 
robust provision buffers, and 1.15% standard asset coverage ratio reflect our consistent 
performance and sharp execution.
Balance Sheet
Capital & Reserves and Surplus
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
101,603
115,025
124,993
150,235
178,617
(I in crores)
Total Advances
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
614,399
707,947
845,303
965,068
1,040,811
(I in crores)
Current Account and Savings 
Account (CASA)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
317,749
370,006
446,536
459,401
478,188
(I in crores)
Total Assets
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
986,798
1,175,429
1,317,326
1,477,209
1,609,930
(I in crores)
Total Deposits
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
697,985
821,721
946,945
1,068,641
1,172,952
(I in crores)
Book Value Per Share
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
332
375
406
487
577
(I)
y–o–y growth
4 year CAGR
Business performance review
19%
8%
4%
9%
10%
18%
15%
14%
11%
13%
14%
15%
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
88

Earnings Per Share (Basic)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
22.15
42.48
71.37*
80.67
85.28
(I)
6%
40%
Profit and Loss
Net Interest Margin (NIM)
Net Interest Income (NII)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
29,239
33,132
42,946
49,894
54,348
(%)
(I in crores)
Operating Revenue
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
41,503
48,353
59,089
72,336
79,605
(I in crores)
Rupee Earned
(%)
Rupee Spent
(%)
Interest from advances
Income from investments
Commission, exchange, brokerage
Other interest income
Others
Interest expense   
Operating expenses 
Transfer to reserve Others  
Tax
Provisions
y–o–y growth
4 year CAGR
Key performance indicators
*Excluding exceptional items 
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
10%
9%
18%
Net Profit
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
6,589
13,025
21,933*
24,861
26,373
(I in crores)
6%
41%
17%
Operating Profit
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
23,128
24,742
32,048*
37,123
42,105
(I in crores)
13%
18%
3.98
4.07
4.02
3.47
3.53
66
46
15
25
14
18
2
6
3
5
89

Business performance review
Key Ratios
Highlights of Subsidiaries^
*Excluding exceptional items
Return on Equity (ROE)
              (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
7.55
12.91
18.38*
18.86
16.52
Capital Adequacy Ratio
	
      (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
19.12
18.54
17.64
16.63
17.07
Cost to Asset Ratio
	
      (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
1.96
2.17
2.25
2.55
2.46
Provision Coverage Ratio
              (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
72
75
81
79
75
Net NPA
              (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
1.05
0.73
0.39
0.31
0.33
Return on Assets (ROA)
	
     (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
0.70
1.21
1.82*
1.83
1.74
Tier 1 Capital
	
     (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
16.47
16.34
14.57
14.20
14.67
Gross NPA
              (%)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
3.70
2.82
2.02
1.43
1.28
^y–o–y growth
11% 
in PAT of domestic 
subsidiaries
11% 
in Axis Finance 
PAT
45% 
in Axis Securities 
Broking Revenue 
33%  
in Axis Capital Revenue 
from operations
9%   
in Axis AMC 
Equity QAAUM
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
90

Key performance indicators
People
Gender Diversity
(%)
*Includes amount transferred to Unspent CSR accounts to be utilised in ongoing programs in subsequent years 
#Cumulatively under the Sustainable Livelihoods Program 
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned 
^Out of total women in workforce
Community
CSR Spend*
(I in crores)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
  202 
  269 
427 
Lives Impacted#
(No. in million)
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
1.30
1.70
2.05
Workforce by Age
	
      (%)
< 30 years
31–40 years
41–50 years
50 years & above
Fiscal 2025
43%
42%
14%
1%
Fiscal 2025 
27.7%
72.3%
Fiscal 2024 
25.0%
75.0%
Fiscal 2023 
25.7%
74.3%
	
      (%)
Women in frontline staff^
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
54.5
52.4
56.5
91

Dear Shareholders,
Fiscal 2025 has been a year marked 
by strategic discipline and thoughtful 
navigation through a complex 
operating environment. Amidst a 
backdrop of subdued systemic deposit 
growth and emerging challenges in 
select areas of the retail unsecured 
segment, we remained focused 
on improving deposit quality and 
portfolio resilience driving long–term 
value creation. 
Our Retail Banking business continues 
to anchor our GPS strategy, delivering 
balanced, risk–adjusted growth. We 
have taken deliberate steps toward 
building a high–quality, premium 
Retail Banking franchise—defined 
by an improved deposit base, strong 
progress in our wealth management 
business, and the prudent expansion 
of our loan portfolio. This segment 
remains a key engine of our growth, 
driven by a sharp customer–first 
mindset, a suite of innovative and 
differentiated products, and one of the 
most extensive distribution networks 
in the country having 5,876 branches 
with a record 500 branches opened 
in fiscal 2025. These pillars empower 
us to meet the evolving financial 
aspirations of millions across India.
The quality of our deposit franchise 
is getting stronger with further 
granularisation and we continue to 
witness sustained growth across our 
priority business segments like SBB 
and Rural Banking. We’ve maintained 
dominant position in cards, payments, 
and wealth management, while 
adopting a calibrated growth approach 
in the unsecured retail segment. On 
the digital payment front, we continue 
to lead with distinction holding a 
dominant position in the UPI Payer 
PSP space and credit cards.
Customer satisfaction continues 
to be our true north. Through 
our forward–looking Customer 
Experience program, we’re creating 
‘wow’ moments at every touchpoint—
empowering our employees to deliver 
truly memorable interaction for our 
customers. This has translated into 
stronger customer engagement, 
deeper loyalty, and growing advocacy. 
Our sharp focus on experience has 
MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT – RE TAIL BANKING
Delivering sustainable and 
profitable growth
Business performance review
Munish Sharda
Executive Director  
(Retail Liabilities, Branch Banking, 
Bharat Banking, Commercial 
Banking Group, and Retail 
Portfolio Management Group)
Arjun Chowdhry
Group Executive  
(Affluent Banking, 
Retail Lending, Cards & 
Payments)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
92

Our deposit franchise 
is being reimagined on 
the pillars of quality, 
cost, and growth—
creating a stronger, 
smarter foundation 
for sustainable 
value creation.
Message from the management – Retail banking
propelled a significant improvement in 
our Retail Net Promoter Score (NPS). 
The seamless integration of the Citi 
consumer businesses has positioned 
us across the spectrum, turbocharging 
our journey towards becoming a 
premium retail banking powerhouse.
Reimagining Deposits: Building a 
Stronger, Smarter Franchise
At Axis Bank, our deposit journey is 
anchored in three strategic pillars–
quality, cost, and growth.
We’ve sharpened the quality of our 
deposit book by improving granularity 
and focusing on LCR accretive 
deposits. Consequently, over the 
past three years, we’ve improved our 
outflow ratio by 340 basis points, now 
aligning with the best in class among 
large peer banks. 
On the cost front, our disciplined 
approach has kept the increase in cost 
of funds to just 7 basis points over 
the last four quarters, despite a tight 
liquidity environment.
Our deposit growth engine is gaining 
momentum as the Bank gained an 
incremental market share of 5.5% in 
total deposits over the last five years. 
With a healthy pipeline of acquisitions, 
strategic expansion, innovative 
product launches, and improving 
performance in salary credits and 
Burgundy AUMs, we’re beginning to 
see early signs of sustained deposit 
growth. As liquidity conditions 
ease and key portfolios stabilise, 
our efforts should translate into 
tangible outcomes. 
The New–to–Bank (NTB) savings 
account franchise is a standout 
performer—NTB deposits grew 19% 
y–o–y despite granular balances per 
account rising 17% y–o–y, reflecting 
deeper customer engagement.
While fiscal 2025 posed challenges 
for Existing–to–Bank (ETB) deposits 
due to tight liquidity and reduced 
government flows, we are now 
seeing early signs of recovery. Our 
overarching focus is on deepening 
relationships, controlling attrition, and 
becoming the primary bank of choice 
as we see a powerful opportunity 
in our existing customer base—not 
just to grow balances, but to drive 
sustainable value. Through smart, 
contextual journeys and timely 
solutions, we are creating a seamless 
banking experience that grows with 
our customers and strengthens  
long–term engagement. In fiscal 2025, 
systemic deposit growth remained 
subdued, primarily constrained by 
the persistent tightness in durable 
liquidity, muted government spending, 
and enhanced efficiency in the 
management of government balances. 
However, with liquidity conditions 
having considerably improved post the 
RBI action, the macro environment is 
poised to become more conducive for 
deposit mobilisation. These tailwinds, 
coupled with more accommodative 
monetary policy stance could result in 
a better deposit growth trajectory in 
fiscal 2026.
Blending ambition with expertise 
to create a new era of aspirational 
banking.
Premiumisation of the deposits 
franchise continues to be an important 
imperative for the Bank. We are 
accelerating our premiumisation 
journey with a sharp focus on  
high–value customer segments.  
Our Burgundy franchise continues to 
thrive, with assets under management 
(AUM) growing 10% y–o–y. Burgundy 
Private, the private banking franchise 
of the Bank catering to the UHNI 
segment, continues to grow strongly 
with coverage expanding to 44 cities 
managing an AUM of ₹2.13 trillion (up 
16% y–o–y) across ~13,400 families 
(up 26% y–o–y), which includes 35 of 
the Forbes 100 richest Indians. This 
momentum has been recognised on 
the global stage, with our Burgundy 
Private offering being named India’s 
Best for Next Gen at the Euromoney 
Global Private Banking Awards 2025. 
The Bank also won FT_PWM Wealth 
Tech Awards 2025 for best CRM for 
Private Banking in Asia.
A key milestone in this transformation 
was the successful integration of 
Citi’s consumer business in July 2024, 
redefining the scale and scope for Axis 
Bank in the premium segment. 
During the year, the Bank introduced 
several new product propositions, 
including the ‘ARISE’ savings account 
for women and the Doctors Banking 
Program, to offer the best banking 
services and life experiences under 
one bouquet. 
93

Business performance review
Retail remains the 
engine of the Bank’s 
granular performance, 
contributing 60% of 
advances and 72% of 
fee income. With 72% 
of our book secured 
and 100% of personal 
loans with salaried 
customers, we are 
building a franchise 
that is both high–
performing and  
high–quality.
Driving Quality Loan Growth 
with Precision and Purpose
Our SBB portfolio grew a strong 
17% y–o–y, while our Rural portfolio 
expanded by 7% as we continue to 
pursue balanced, RAROC–led growth 
in our retail segment. Notably, nearly 
72% of our retail book remains 
secured, underscoring the strength 
and resilience of our portfolio.
Retail continues to be the engine of 
the Bank’s granular performance–
contributing 60% of total advances, 
and 72% of the Bank’s fee income in 
fiscal 2025. By leveraging our robust 
digital infrastructure and advanced 
data analytics, we are enhancing 
operational efficiency and decision–
making.
The unsecured retail segment is 
exhibiting industry–wide stress, driven 
by increased credit appetite and signs 
of over-leverage in certain pockets, 
particularly in personal loans (PL), 
cards and micro–finance segment MFI 
portfolio is only ~1.2% of the Bank’s 
total retail loans. We are navigating 
this evolving credit landscape 
with agility. 
In the unsecured retail segment, 
including MFI, we are seeing a 
normalisation cycle. Proactive risk 
management framework—anchored 
in real–time portfolio monitoring, 
early warning triggers, and dynamic 
policy recalibration—has ensured that 
delinquencies in new cohorts remain 
well within our guardrails.
We continue to strengthen the core 
pillars of our risk architecture—
scorecards, policy, and underwriting—
while tightening standards through 
deliberate business mix choices. Our 
focus on quality is evident: 100% of 
our personal loan portfolio and 79% 
of our credit card book is with salaried 
customers. Existing to bank (ETB) 
mix stands at 79% for personal loans 
and 47% for credit cards, reflecting 
our disciplined approach to customer 
selection and portfolio construction. 
~20% of credit cards acquired in fiscal 
2025 were through Known to Bank 
(KTB) channel.
Powering Progress Across Bharat: 
Banking that Builds Communities
Our Bharat Banking franchise 
continues to be a powerful engine 
of inclusive growth, delivering 
healthy performance PSL assets and 
expanding our footprint across rural 
and semi–urban India. In fiscal 2025, 
our rural advances and deposits 
grew by 7% and 9%, respectively. 
Our distribution network now spans 
2,736 branches, supported by a 
formidable 28,000+ CSC Village 
Level Entrepreneurs network. With 
250+ new branches added this year 
and over 25 strategic partnerships 
across Agri–tech, Fintech, NBFCs, and 
corporates, we are reaching deeper 
into the heart of Bharat.
This growth is underpinned by  
a digital–first approach–e–KYC,  
e–NACH, e–Sign, and e–Stamp are 
now integral to our customer journeys. 
We’ve gone fully digital in our MFI–
retail, Farm Mechanisation verticals 
and are set to onboard key segments 
like Bharat Enterprise B2B Retail, 
Farmer Funding (KCC), and Micro–LAP 
in fiscal 2026. We are also enhancing 
operational risk controls and launching 
instant digital CASA journeys to 
further accelerate deposit growth.
With deep distribution, a robust digital 
backbone, a thriving partnership 
ecosystem, and proven expertise 
in rural lending, we are poised to 
become a dominant force in Bharat. 
Our focus remains on deepening 
engagement, enhancing profitability, 
scaling alternate revenue streams, and 
driving sustainable, inclusive growth 
across India.
Redefining Payments: Scaling 
Innovation, Deepening Impact
India’s payments landscape is 
undergoing a paradigm shift—and 
Axis Bank is at the forefront of 
this transformation. As customer 
preferences evolve and digital 
adoption accelerates, we are seizing 
the moment to lead with innovation, 
scale, and precision. In fiscal 2025, our 
payments business continued to be 
a cornerstone of our Retail strategy, 
driving engagement and growth.
With ~15 million credit cards in force 
and a 14% market share at the end 
of fiscal 2025, having 20% share of 
KTB sourcing in total card issuances 
in fiscal 2025, our credit card business 
achieved 12% growth in spends with 
a spends market share of ~11% in 
fiscal 2025. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
94

Message from the management – Retail banking
Axis Bank is redefining 
digital banking in  
India—leading the 
payments space with 
a 33% UPI market 
share, 15 million 
credit cards, and a 
merchant acquiring 
business with ~20% 
terminal share.  
Our top–rated mobile 
app, with 4.7+ ratings 
on Android and 
iOS, is the gateway 
to a seamless, 
secure, and smart 
banking experience.
Our co–branded partnerships, include 
the Flipkart Axis Bank Credit Card 
with ~4 million cards. 
Our merchant acquiring business 
remains a market leader with ~20% 
terminal share. In UPI, we’ve cemented 
our leadership with a 33% market 
share as Payer PSP, maintaining a 
leading position since August 2024. 
Strategic partnerships with fintechs 
and tech giants have fuelled this 
growth, alongside innovations like 
Credit on UPI and UPI Circle.
Backed by a resilient tech stack, 
real–time decisioning, and among the 
lowest decline rates, we are not just 
participating in the digital payments 
revolution—we are shaping it.
Leading with Innovation: Elevating 
Digital Banking
Axis Bank’s digital banking momentum 
continues to accelerate, driven by 
innovation, security, and customer–
first design. In fiscal 2025, we 
introduced industry–first features like 
in–app mobile OTP—enhancing fraud 
protection while eliminating reliance 
on telecom networks. Our new 
Safety Centre on the Axis ‘open’ app 
empowers customers with granular 
control over their digital channels, 
reinforcing trust and transparency.
We launched My Money, a pioneering 
personal finance tool that allows 
customers to view investments across 
brokers—another industry–first. 
New journeys like FD via UPI and 
enhancements to neo for Corporates 
and neo for Businesses are redefining 
digital experiences for individuals and 
enterprises alike. We continue to build 
long–term competitive advantage 
with investment in technology and 
analytics with some cutting–edge 
use case in Gen AI and Financial 
Crime intelligence.
We are building a resilient, industrial–
grade tech backbone through our 
Salesforce journey’s, standardizing 
40+ capabilities across 20+ retail 
lending products. This is powering a 
pioneering end–to–end omnichannel 
model, setting the stage for scalable, 
sustainable growth ahead.
The growing adoption of our ‘Siddhi’ 
App, along with intuitive cross–sell 
journeys and intelligent nudges, made 
doing business smoother and smarter 
for both customers and employees. 
Our efforts have not gone unnoticed–
Axis Bank was named Best Digital 
Bank (Private) by Financial Express, 
a testament to our leadership in 
digital excellence. 
With top–rated apps and a relentless 
focus on innovation, we are setting 
new benchmarks in digital banking for 
India’s evolving financial landscape. 
Next–Level Growth, Built on  
Trust and Technology
As we look ahead, the next phase 
of our journey will be defined by 
deeper customer connections, sharper 
execution, and smarter engagement. 
By enhancing contactability, driving 
cross–sell through co–origination 
journeys, and strengthening our digital 
capabilities with platforms like ‘Siddhi’, 
we are building a more connected and 
responsive franchise well–positioned 
to move forward in our retail 
banking journey.
Warm regards, 
Munish Sharda
Executive Director  
(Retail Liabilities, Branch Banking, 
Bharat Banking, Commercial 
Banking Group, and Retail Portfolio 
Management Group)
Arjun Chowdhry
Group Executive  
(Affluent Banking, Retail Lending, 
Cards & Payments)
95

Material Issues Linkage
M1
M7
M2
M9
M6
Our Retail Banking segment aims 
to promote accessibility and a 
seamless banking experience. 
With a robust branch network, 
digital–first solutions, and 
customer–centric products, we 
have expanded our reach across 
urban, semi–urban, and rural India, 
thus driving meaningful progress 
towards financial inclusion.  
Our focus on premiumisation, 
digital transformation, and 
strategic partnerships has helped 
us drive strong performance across 
deposits, lending, payments, and 
wealth management.
Business performance review
BUSINESS SEGMENT PERFORMANCE — RE TAIL BANKING
Promoting open, accessible,  
and inclusive banking
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Powered by our deep 
customer engagement, 
continued digital 
expansion, and a sharper 
premiumisation strategy, 
our Retail Banking segment 
delivered resilient growth 
across deposits, lending, and 
payments during the year, 
reinforcing our position as a 
trusted financial partner  
for our customers.
Retail Deposits
Our retail deposits strategy, driven by 
our customer–centricity, resulted in 
10% y–o–y growth in Total Deposits 
MEB. The CASA ratio remained  
strong at 41%, reflecting stable,  
low–cost deposits.  
 
We have improved the granularisation 
in our deposit book, which positively 
impacts the quality of LCR deposits. 
Consequently, improving the outflow 
ratio by 340 bps over the last 3 years. 
The quality and strength of our deposit 
franchise continues to improve.  
Our acquisition engine, expansion 
plans, product launches, salary credits, 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
96

Business segment performance – Retail banking
Retail Lending
Deeply connected with our GPS 
strategy, our retail lending franchise 
aims to consistently deliver  
high–risk–adjusted returns.  
Over the last year, we have driven 
volumes while improving profit 
metrics and leveraging data–driven 
insights to optimise our portfolio, 
enhance efficiency, and seize new 
opportunities to strengthen our 
competitive position in the market.
14%  
 Growth of term  
deposits in  
fiscal 2025  
(y–o–y)
KEY RETAIL LENDING PRODUCTS 
Home loans
Overdraft against 
salary
Personal loans
Commercial 
equipment loans
Overdraft against 
FDs
Lease rent 
discounting
Commercial 
vehicle loans
Affordable 
housing loans
Supply chain 
finance
Loan against 
securities
Loan against 
property
Vehicle loans
Education loans
Credit cards
and Burgundy AUMs remain healthy.  
We advanced premiumisation with 
targeted offerings such as the ARISE 
savings account for women, which 
caters to diverse financial goals–
from ensuring the family’s financial 
security to supporting entrepreneurial 
ambitions. The Doctors Banking 
Program aimed to meet healthcare 
professionals’ unique needs while 
enhancing cross–selling opportunities.
We enhanced the customer experience 
with a Lean Savings Onboarding 
journey and early adoption of UIDAI’s 
facial recognition KYC, making 
account activation simple and easy. 
The upgraded Salary Suvidha enabled 
effortless digital onboarding and 
reimbursements. Strategic brand 
partnerships and 
virtual masterclasses further 
strengthened corporate engagement.
Savings Account New to Bank (NTB) 
deposits up 13% y–o–y and granular 
balances per account up 17% y–o–y.  
The Bank has made focused 
interventions to ensure better 
engagements with its salaried 
customers and continue to see healthy 
trends 18% y–o–y growth in Salary 
Uploads in the NTB Salary book 
and 38% y–o–y growth in Premium 
acquisitions in NTB Salary book in 
fiscal 2025.
neo platforms along with customised 
solutions across liquidity management, 
payments and collections continue 
to drive higher transaction banking 
flows leading to better current 
account balances.
Total term deposits grew 14% y–o–y 
in fiscal 2025, driven by seamless 
digital journeys such as FD booking 
via WhatsApp, while the ease of 
onboarding, better compliance, and 
security reinforced customer trust.
The Bank remains committed to 
premiumisation, digital innovation, and 
delivering exceptional value across all 
customer segments.
97

Progress across Five Pillars
Retail lending is a primary growth driver, and we are strategically positioned 
to capitalise on emerging market trends given our extensive network, 
comprehensive product propositions, strong brand, and robust processes. 
We will continue to invest in the business to optimise our offering, 
strengthen the risk framework, drive deeper market penetration, and 
enhance customer experience.
Digital-first, Always
	»
We have seen increased coverage of digital loans in our high growth businesses 
and have launched a best–in–class Digital Home Loan journey. 
	»
From Key Fact Statement documents to end–to–end digitisation roadmaps,  
our goal is clear: to deliver a frictionless, future–ready lending experience.
Smart Distribution, Deeper Penetration
	»
We have designed lending strategies tailored to the potential of each market segment, 
fully leveraging the expansive and optimised branch network.
	»
Bharat Banking continues to penetrate rural and semi–urban markets while building 
scalable partnerships with fintechs, dealers, DSAs, and OEMs.
Sales with Insight, Powered by Data
	»
Our flagship app, ‘Siddhi’, is transforming frontline productivity — from 360° 
customer views and AI–led recommendations to portfolio KPIs and coaching tools.
	»
Teams across regions are already seeing improved outcomes and stronger 
performance metrics.
Risk–ready and Resilient
	»
We are embedding governance and control at every stage — from credit and operations 
to business lines. 
	»
With real–time risk monitoring, proactive fraud prevention, and risk–based pricing, our 
approach ensures resilience, compliance, and long–term value creation.
‘One Axis’ Approach: From Product to Customer
	»
Integrating lending into ecosystems such as property, education, and health, and 
collaborating across Axis group entities, we are emerging as the preferred banking 
partner throughout the customer lifecycle.
	»
Our ETB–led strategies are further increasing stickiness and deepening wallet share.
D6,229 billion
Retail advances book 
 7% y–o–y
Business performance review
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
98

Credit Cards
The Bank continued strengthening its 
cards and payments business, expanding 
its portfolio through strong organic 
growth and successfully integrating 
Citibank’s high–value consumer portfolio.
The Bank’s co–branded Flipkart Axis 
Bank Credit Card reached a remarkable 
~15 million 
Total credit cards in force
~14% 
Market share of cards in 
force
₹2,266 billion 
Highest–ever Annual Card 
Spends
~20%  
Merchant Acquiring 
Terminal Market Share
4 million active cards, signifying 
customer engagement and growing 
market adoption.
Innovation remained at the forefront with 
the launch of Credit Cards on UPI (RuPay) 
for instant digital transactions.  
This significantly boosted  
month–on–month spending,  
accelerating digital adoption and 
enhancing customer convenience.
The Bank ranks at 2nd position in the 
merchant acquisition space with a ~20% 
terminal market share and ~17% industry 
throughput share. The year saw the 
introduction of innovative solutions 
like NFC Soundbox, UniPG for online 
payments, neo for Merchants app, 
streamlining digital payment acceptance 
and driving business growth for merchants.
Forex Cards & 
Remittances
We continue strengthening our  
cross–border banking offerings 
through a Forex Cards and Remittance 
Services suite, delivering seamless, 
secure, and convenient experiences 
across digital and branch channels. 
Anchored in our digital–first strategy, 
we introduced innovative features 
such as automated reloads, bulk 
corporate recharging, and personalised 
customer discounts, resulting in over 
90% digital issuance. 
Forex cards curated offerings were 
introduced for travellers across 
Southeast Asia and the Middle East, 
with a sharper focus on student, 
business, and leisure travel segments. 
In remittances, the Bank enabled same–
day credit (T–day) for inward transfers 
and enhanced processing by expanding 
STP limits from ₹15 lakhs to ₹25 lakhs 
and increasing the number of purpose 
codes from 5 to 41 to facilitate quicker, 
paperless settlements. 
USD–INR self–transfers up to  
$30,000
supported on the Remit Money 
online portal
64%
Outward remittance 
digitisation    
 from 45% y–o–y
Digital outward remittances 
to Gift City enabled, thus 
requiring no visits to branch
$5.4 billion
Retail forex volume, with  
4 lakhs active customers
90%+ 
Fresh Digital Issuances of 
Forex Cards
We have implemented NSDL PAN 
validations, and the RBI–integrated 
Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) 
monitoring project is in progress.
In outward remittances, the launch 
of digital GIFT City transfers, 
partnerships with fintech and online 
brokers, and the rise in digitally 
processed transactions from 45% to 
64% were key milestones. Regulatory 
readiness remained central, with 
proactive implementation of PAN 
validations, LRS monitoring, and 
compliance with revised LRS limits  
as per the Union Budget 2025–26.
Above are standalone figures as on/for year ended March 31, 2025 unless otherwise mentioned
99
Business segment performance – Retail banking

Business performance review
Digital Currency (CBDC)
The Bank has been a pioneer in driving 
adoption of the Central Bank Digital 
Currency (CBDC), becoming the  
only bank to roll out Dynamic QR  
based non–50paise handling.  
This was a game changer and 
motivated our CBDC users to use the 
App for their day to day transactions. 
We were One of the few banks to 
launch Entity programmable CBDC use 
cases and User Level programmability 
in collaboration with RBI & NPCI. 
These initiatives underscore our 
commitment to financial inclusion, 
secure digital innovation, and 
transparent value delivery.
On an average we managed 18,500 
transactions daily and also hold the 
record of the single day highest  
CBDC transactions of 3.2 lakhs.  
We earned our place as the  
top private bank to credit 
maximum number of beneficiaries 
during the Odisha government’s 
Subhadra scheme. 
6.4 lakhs
CBDC customer base, among 
the highest active customers 
~18,500
Daily average transactions
~45,000
CBDC Merchants onboarded 
Digital Initiatives
We actively working to digitise our 
journeys to provide best in class customer 
experience. Last year, we went live with 
the digital journey for Home loans, digitise 
the key fact statement document, and 
seeing increasing digital coverage in auto, 
and personal loans. We have a roadmap to 
digitise customer journey across all high 
growth products in the coming future. 
The Axis Mobile Banking App ‘open’, 
which has a 4.7 rating on the Google 
Play Store with over 3 million reviews, 
continued to be a key driver of customer 
engagement, with over 1 million daily 
visits. Digital innovations like Digital 
Unboxing, with an ~80% activation 
rate, and the Benefits Dashboard, which 
attracted 2.7 million monthly views, 
~80% 
Of customers’ Digital 
Activation done via Digital 
Unboxing
enhanced customer experiences by 
offering seamless access to card features, 
rewards, and spending insights.
Further, to aid seamless customer 
experience; 86% of the cards portfolio 
requests are handled via the Axis 
Bank mobile banking app, ‘open’. 
This includes Upgrades, Credit limit 
enhancements, Instant Loans and 
EMIs, among other services.  
We recently rolled out  
industry–leading capabilities like  
‘Pay With Rewards’. To facilitate 
higher card engagement,  
we launched hyper personalised 
‘spend and get’ offers which had 
targeted offerings basis each 
customer’s past spend behaviour  
and witnessed huge adoption by  
Axis Bank credit cardholders. 
Through initiatives like dil se open 
celebrations, customers enjoyed up 
to 25% discount on categories such 
as lifestyle, travel, dining, electronics 
mobile and consumer durables. The 
bank also launched Travel fest to 
further enhance customer experience 
by catering to seasonal needs.
We secured this top private bank spot 
3 times in a row. We were also one 
of the few banks invited to represent 
RBI Pavilion for CBDC during Maha 
Kumbh 2025, Global Fintech Festival 
2024, and IITF Trade Fair 2024 at the 
Bharat Mandapam, New Delhi.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
100

UPI & Strategic Partnerships
The Bank continues to expand its UPI 
ecosystem and strengthen strategic 
partnerships, leveraging technology 
to drive seamless digital transactions. 
By deepening collaborations across 
UPI, acquiring, and issuance, we are 
improving our market presence and 
building first–mover advantages in 
digital payments.
With the broadest range of  
co–branded cards, we have 
solidified our position through 
partnerships across e–commerce, 
airlines, fintech, telecom, fuel, retail, 
and consumer durables, offering 
differentiated solutions for diverse 
customer segments. 
We work closely with PhonePe, 
Google Pay, Amazon, and emerging 
digital players to increase UPI 
adoption. The year saw the launch 
of Credit on UPI for issuance and 
acquisition, further accelerating 
organic UPI transaction growth.
Wealth Management
In less than a decade, the Bank’s 
Wealth Management franchise has 
emerged as the third largest in India, 
leveraging a full–stack product 
suite, extensive distribution, and 
integration of Citibank’s wealth 
business. Our commitment to growing 
and preserving client wealth is at the 
heart of our holistic approach that 
seamlessly integrates investments, 
banking, and advisory services.  
‘One Axis’ unites expertise across 
Axis Securities, Axis AMC, Axis 
Capital, Axis Finance, and Axis Trustee 
Services, enabling us to cater to every 
financial need.
People, Technology & Service
Our dedicated Burgundy Private 
Partners, Relationship Managers, 
and Wealth Specialists provide 
personalised, high–touch advisory 
services across 44 cities and 
350+ branches. 
~183 crores   
UPI IDs registered as on 
March 31, 2025
33.3%
UPI Market Share  
(Payer PSP)
18.5+ lakhs
Clients and families 
served through Wealth 
Management platform
₹7.4 trillion#
Financial assets managed, 
with a strong Products per 
Family (PPF) ratio
Backed by our award–winning digital 
innovations, including the Axis Mobile 
App ‘open’ (rated 4.8 on Apple App 
Store and 4.7 on Google Play Store), 
clients enjoy a seamless, omnichannel 
wealth experience, efficiently investing 
across asset classes like mutual funds, 
insurance, NPS, and sovereign bonds.
Driving Digital Transformation  
& Innovation
With an upgraded wealth management 
platform integrated into our core 
banking system, we continue to invest 
in AI–driven insights, automation, and 
risk management, enhancing client 
experience and operational efficiency. 
As the industry evolves with growing 
competition from fintechs and 
independent advisors, we remain 
positioned to lead with scalability, 
superior digital capabilities, and  
cost–efficient acquisition channels.
Awards Won
	»
‘India’s Best for Next–Gen’ at the 
Euromoney Global Private Banking 
Awards 2025 
	»
Best CRM for Private Banking 
in Asia – PWM WealthTech 
Awards 2025
#Including advisory assets under management/ 
promoter holding but excluding loans
Business segment performance – Retail banking
101

MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT –  
WHOLESALE BANKING
A trusted banking partner 
of corporate India
Business performance review
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Fiscal 2025 stood out for our Wholesale 
Banking franchise—one that showcased our 
ability to lead with client centric innovation 
and scale with purpose. Our Wholesale 
Banking franchise is now more agile, digital, 
and future–ready than ever before. 
At the heart of our Wholesale Banking 
success lies a strong, relationship–led 
franchise—one that thrives on deep client 
engagement and seamless collaboration 
across the ‘One Axis’ ecosystem. Over 
the last 7 years, we’ve transformed into a 
true ‘one–stop shop’ for the banking needs 
of Indian corporates, offering integrated 
solutions that span the entire business 
lifecycle—from growth–stage enterprises to 
large conglomerates. 
This evolution is more than structural—
it’s cultural. It reflects our commitment 
to execution excellence, powered by 
collaboration, innovation, and a unified 
vision to deliver value at every touchpoint.
Scaling up and Strengthening our 
Wholesale Banking Franchise
Axis Bank’s leadership in Wholesale 
Banking was further cemented through 
its strategic engagement and integrated 
‘One Axis’ approach, delivering end-to-
end solutions to Large Corporates & 
Conglomerates, Mid & Small Enterprises, 
MNCs, New Economy group, Infra & Real 
estate, and Institutional & Government 
entities. The focus remained on enhancing 
relationship RAROC across these 
segments. Mid corporate including Small 
Business Banking and SME—expanded 
~14% y-o-y, now representing ~23% of 
the total loan book, a remarkable rise of 
~740 basis points over four years. The 
SME segment stood out for its robustness, 
with Gross NPA at just 0.77%, Net NPA at 
0.25%, and 88% PSL compliance.  
The Bank also deepened its footprint in the 
start-up ecosystem, forging partnerships 
with unicorns and Series A+ ventures. 
Tailored offerings like the Axis Start-
Up Card and neo APIs showcased its 
commitment to innovation. As a leader 
in domestic payment gateways, the Bank 
expanded into cross-border payments, 
while the Real Economy Group focused on 
Infrastructure & Real Estate doubled its 
business, contributing 50% to syndication 
volumes and advancing Green financing. 
Key milestones including clinching India’s 
first Blue Loan of $500 million from IFC and 
doubling Assets Under Custody to ₹10 lakh 
crore added further momentum.
The Bank sees the MSME as a 
transformative force for the next decade—
much like Retail was in the last. This is a 
granular, sectorally diverse, and highly 
profitable business that we are deeply 
committed to scaling. With a strong 
foundation, prudent risk management, and 
a clear strategic vision, we are confident 
that our MSME franchise will continue to 
be a key element of our growth story. 
Our Wholesale banking business continues 
to thrive, offering us deeper engagement 
opportunities through deposits, fee–based 
products, and cross–sell. We are making 
steady progress in building a profitable 
and sustainable Corporate Bank. Our 
disciplined approach to underwriting 
and pricing ensures that we selectively 
pursue opportunities that align with our 
risk appetite, while continuing to grow our 
portfolio responsibly. 
In fiscal 2025, our corporate loan book 
grew by 8% y–o–y, with mid– corporate 
lending delivering a healthy 10% growth. 
Overseas, 91% of our standard corporate 
loan book remains India–linked, and 96% 
is rated A and above—underscoring the 
quality of our exposures. 
Looking ahead to fiscal 2026, the 
Wholesale banking franchise Axis 
Bank is poised to accelerate its journey 
through strong asset growth, flow based 
liabilities, accelerated digital transaction 
activations, operational efficiency, and 
strategic partnerships—continuing to shape 
the future of Axis Bank with purpose 
and precision. 
Dominant market share in  
Transaction Banking
Our customized solutions in payments 
and cash management continue to drive 
strong transaction flows and improve 
current account balances as evident by 
the 24% y–o–y increase in new current 
account acquisitions in fiscal 2025. We 
now command 7% market share in GST 
payments, 8.8% in RTGS by value, ~30% 
y–o–y growth in NEFT by value, 23% in 
IMPS (by volume), and 11% in foreign 
LCs. Our merchant acquiring business 
is also seeing strong growth in current 
account balances.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
102

Message from the management – Wholesale banking
Leading the Way in the Corporate 
Bond Market
We remain exceptionally well–positioned 
to capitalize on the momentum of India’s 
vibrant corporate bond market. Axis Bank 
continue to be recognised as the No. 1 
arranger for rupee–denominated bonds, 
as per the Bloomberg league table—an 
achievement that reflects our deep market 
expertise and trusted relationships. Our 
leadership was further reinforced by top 
honours at the 2024 Best of the Sell–side 
survey by Asset Benchmark Research, 
where we were named Top Arranger 
– Investors’ Choice for Primary Issues 
and Top Sell–side Firm in the Secondary 
Market. These accolades underscore our 
commitment to delivering excellence across 
the full spectrum of debt capital markets.
Digital Innovation with Project neo
Project neo is redefining our digital 
engagement with corporate clients. With a 
client–centric design, neo offers a seamless, 
multi–product, multi–channel experience. 
In this fiscal, we’ve seen 1.3x growth in API 
integrations, 1.6x growth in throughput, 
and 1.7x growth in linked current account 
balances. neo for Business, our mobile–
first platform for SMEs, has onboarded 
~1.8 lakh customers since its launch in 
September 2023. neo for Corporates is 
scaling rapidly having mobile app available 
for payment authorisation, with onboarding 
underway for 2 lakhs+ clients.
Our commitment to innovation and client–
centricity has been widely recognised, with 
Project neo earning multiple accolades. 
These include the Best Product Innovation 
awards for the neo API Developer Portal, 
neo for Business, and neo for Corporates. 
These honours underscore the strength of 
our digital strategy and reaffirm our focus 
on delivering cutting–edge, value–driven 
solutions to our clients across segments.
Driving Innovation and  
Expanding Impact
Axis Bank made history as the first Indian 
bank to execute an aircraft financing deal 
through its International Banking Unit at 
GIFT City—funding 34 training aircraft for 
Air India’s pilot academy. India is becoming 
a hotspot for aircraft manufacturers 
due to its growing aviation market and 
shifting global dynamics, thereby helping 
manufacturers diversify market risk and this 
pioneering transaction marks a bold step in 
building India’s aviation finance ecosystem  
and reinforces our leadership in  
cross–border innovation.
We further accelerated our innovation 
agenda and deepened our commitment to 
empowering businesses across segments. 
Our partnership with Marg ERP is 
transforming SME banking by integrating 
financial services directly into business 
workflows–enhancing agility, efficiency, 
and decision–making for our clients. We 
also expanded our global footprint with 
further enhancement of our International 
Banking Unit at GIFT City, offering a 
comprehensive suite of digital–first services 
tailored for NRIs and global customers.
In our continued push for digital leadership, 
we launched India’s first UPI–enabled 
Android Cash Recycler and introduced 
Bharat Connect for Business to streamline 
working capital and cash flow management 
for enterprises. Our collaboration with 
Next Bharat Ventures is unlocking access to 
working capital for impact–driven startups 
and MSMEs, especially in underserved Tier 
2 and Tier 3 regions—fostering inclusive 
economic growth.
Through our New Economy Group, we 
launched a Corporate Credit Card Suite 
designed specifically for startups, offering 
flexible, value–rich tools to support their 
evolving needs. 
To further empower the merchant 
community, we introduced neo for 
Merchants in partnership with VISA 
and a fintech company–a mobile–first, 
all–in–one platform that simplifies 
payments, reporting, and service requests. 
Additionally, we enabled seamless 
GST payments via our Commercial 
Card platform, helping clients optimize 
working capital while enhancing 
operational efficiency.
A Chapter Closes, A Legacy Continues
As I prepare to retire at the end of my term 
in August 2025, I reflect with immense 
pride on my 16–year journey with Axis 
Group—nearly 8 of those within Wholesale 
Banking. When I took the helm in 2018, 
the banking industry was navigating the 
turbulence of the corporate led NPA 
cycle. Today, we stand transformed being 
evolved from an asset–focused model to 
a relationship–led franchise and redefined 
Transaction Banking with industry–first 
innovations and built a solution–led, 
wholesale banking ecosystem.  
Through ‘One Axis’, we served clients 
across the capital structure, becoming the 
Transaction Bank of Choice.
We’ve consistently led with an industry–
first mindset–executing India’s first 
domestic trade transaction on a  
GOI–backed blockchain platform, 
pioneering SOFR–linked trade deals,  
being India’s first bank on aircraft financing 
solutions, and many more. This reflects our 
commitment to innovation and our drive to 
set new benchmarks in wholesale banking. 
Initiatives like Project neo are steadily 
shaping our vision of a leading digital 
corporate bank. 
Our presence at GIFT City has grown 
stronger, and we’ve deepened our 
engagement with government entities 
and financial sponsors. These efforts have 
contributed to steady growth in liabilities 
and fee income.
India’s cyclical recovery is gaining 
momentum, with real GDP growth 
rebounding to 6.5% y–o–y in 2025, as 
several headwinds begin to ease. However, 
global tariff tensions and China’s excess 
capacity risks are clouding the outlook 
for fiscal 2026, delaying private capex 
recovery—even as corporate balance 
sheets remain strong and well–positioned 
for future growth. We’ve undertaken a 
comprehensive bottom–up analysis of 
tariff impacts across industries and our 
portfolio. While the current impact appears 
negligible, we remain cautious given the 
evolving global landscape. Despite these 
uncertainties, our strong balance sheet, 
prudent risk management, and focus on 
relationship RAROC position us well to 
navigate challenges and capture profitable 
growth opportunities in future. 
This journey has been one of purpose 
and transformation. As I move on, I do so 
knowing that Axis stands stronger, bolder, 
and more future–ready than ever.
Warm regards, 
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
103

Material Issues Linkage
M1
M7
M2
M6
Our Wholesale Banking franchise 
serves diverse clients & their 
needs across Conglomerates, 
Large Corporates, Mid–sized 
companies, Infrastructure & 
Real Estate Entities, Public 
Sector Undertakings (PSUs), 
Government Institutions, 
Financial Intermediaries, Multi–
National Companies & New 
Economy entities.
Through our integrated ‘One 
Axis’ approach, we offer a 
comprehensive suite of solutions 
spanning Credit, Trade, Capital 
markets, Advisory, Treasury, Forex 
& Derivatives, Transaction Banking 
and Digital services. Focusing 
on long–term relationships and 
sector–specific expertise, we 
continue to position ourselves 
as a Trusted Banking partner 
committed to enabling growth, 
resilience, and transformation 
across the enterprise landscape.
BUSINESS SEGMENT PERFORMANCE – WHOLESALE BANKING
Ensuring every enterprise 
reaches its potential
Business performance review
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Our Wholesale Banking 
segment supports India’s 
thriving yet evolving 
enterprise ecosystem 
with a solutions–driven 
approach. Rooted in our 
belief in openness and 
collaboration, we remain 
dedicated to assisting 
businesses at every stage 
of their growth journey — 
whether expanding into 
new markets, transitioning 
to sustainable models, 
navigating complex 
challenges or supporting 
mature businesses stay 
resilient.
8% 
Corporate advances 
growth (y–o–y)
9% 
Corporate and Commercial 
Banking fee income growth 
(y–o–y) 
6% 
Current account deposits 
growth (y–o–y) 
90%  
Share of Corporate Advances 
to clients rated A– and above
~1.8X
Focus segment book* growth 
vs overall book growth (y–o–y)
740 bps   
Rise in focus segment  
contribution mix (from 15.3% 
to 22.7%) over the last 4 years 
*SBB+SME+Mid Corporate
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
104

Business segment performance – Wholesale banking
Strengthening Wholesale Banking in Fiscal 2025
Building Capabilities and 
Empowering Bankers
In fiscal 2025, we launched a 
comprehensive learning and 
development program to equip our 
Relationship Managers with sharper 
insights, deeper customer empathy, 
and enhanced product knowledge. 
Initiatives such as the Credit Analyst 
Program, 1,000 Change Leaders, and 
Selling with Passion, supported by 
Coursera–based learning, ensured 
that our teams were not only trained 
but also transformed into dil se 
open bankers.
Expanding Global Horizons 
through Partnerships
We forged a strategic partnership 
with Crédit Agricole Corporate & 
Investment Bank, France to unlock 
new opportunities for clients 
operating across in India and Europe 
to strengthen our capabilities in FI 
trade, renewable energy underwriting, 
aircraft financing, and syndication, 
ensuring our clients could access our 
global expertise delivered through  
a trusted local partner.
Financing the Future  
with Purpose
We deepened our commitment to 
sustainable finance, securing India’s 
first–ever Blue Loan of $500 million 
from the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC). This milestone 
supports the financing of both green 
and blue projects, encompassing 
initiatives from renewable energy 
to sea and freshwater conservation. 
We enabled ₹19,500 crores in 
green funding, covering EV mobility, 
round–the–clock power, and 
sustainable infrastructure.
Government & Ecosystem 
Engagement
We are a committed partner in the 
nation’s growth journey. In fiscal 2025, 
we co–hosted the Defence Conclave 
2025, with the theme, ‘Atmanirbhar 
Defence – Empowering the Defence 
Ecosystem’, to bolster the indigenous 
defence manufacturing in collaboration 
with the government, MSMEs and 
industry leaders. Aligned with the 
‘Make in India’ and ‘Invest in India’ 
missions, we expanded our global 
banking reach through GIFT City. We 
partnered with Invest India to attract 
investments into high–growth sectors, 
opening new pathways for national 
transformation. As the first bank to 
integrate with the government’s Upyog 
platform, we have empowered over 60 
local bodies with smart citizen services, 
ranging from QR–based tax collection 
to drone–enabled disaster response. 
Digital & AI–Led Transformation
We launched our e–commerce Centre 
of Excellence (CoE) to tap into India’s 
booming $400 billion D2C market in 
collaboration with fintech aggregators. 
We also advanced the use of Gen 
AI, driving smarter decision–making, 
sharper customer insights, and greater 
operational efficiency of the Wholesale 
Banking ecosystem.
₹10 lakh crores
Doubled Assets under Custody 
(AUC) powered by the UTI 
Mutual Fund mandate
₹19,500 million
Green funding enabled during 
the year by the Bank
$500 million
India’s first–ever Blue Loan 
secured by the Bank from IFC 
in fiscal 2025
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
105

Business performance review
Commercial Banking 
Group (CBG)
CBG is a critical and vital segment of 
the Bank, contributing significantly to 
business growth and profitability.  
As per the Bank’s motto, ‘Har raah 
dil se open’ – Our commitment to 
open every window of opportunity,” 
CBG caters to the evolving needs of 
MSMEs across the entire customer 
value chain. This includes loans, 
trade/forex, liabilities, and fee–based 
products, providing tailored banking 
solutions for business owners and 
employees and ensuring seamless 
financial support at every stage of 
their journey.
CBG’s vast network of 155 dedicated 
MSME centres enables the delivery 
of contextual, relationship–driven 
banking, empowering businesses 
with the tools and insights they 
need to operate more efficiently and 
grow confidently.
CBG’s Digital-first approach and 
robust credit delivery framework have 
enhanced reach and engagement 
during fiscal 2025. 
The advanced digital renewal journey 
streamlined loan servicing. Our 
relationship managers, equipped 
with real–time data through 
advanced digital tools, played a 
key role in delivering proactive, 
personalised service.
In fiscal 2025, the CBG segment made 
substantial contributions to Priority 
Sector Lending (PSL), aligning its 
efforts with national developmental 
goals while strengthening its liability 
portfolio to enhance stability 
and profitability. 
The Bank’s PSL engine generates 
stable and high–quality PSL for 
the bank.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF 
FISCAL 2025
₹1.19 lakh crores
SME Advances 
(14% y–o–y growth)
8.3% 
Market share as % of overall 
Industry MSME credit
71%  
SME loans rated SME3 
or better 
88%  
SME loans are PSL 
compliant 
Medium Enterprises 
Group (MEG)
Medium–sized enterprises are the 
backbone of India’s economic growth 
across various sectors, including trade, 
wholesale, retail, food processing, 
textiles, and steel. Our Medium 
Enterprises (ME) franchise continues 
to play a critical role in enabling 
these businesses to scale efficiently, 
expand sustainably, and thrive in a 
dynamic environment.
18% 
Loan book growth (y–o–y)
56% 
Customers digitally  
onboarded
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
In fiscal 2025, the ME franchise 
delivered strong growth, led by 
targeted financial solutions, agile 
servicing, and deep relationship 
engagement. Our bankers work closely 
with enterprises to help them realise 
their ambitions and provide them with 
insightful advice, seamless onboarding, 
and digital–first support. This year’s 
momentum was driven by a focus 
on risk–calibrated lending, proactive 
digital adoption, and our commitment 
to making banking more accessible, 
relevant, and responsive to the needs 
of growing enterprises.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
106

Treasury
The Bank continued to offer a broad 
range of treasury and market solutions, 
including forex, derivatives, debt 
capital markets, and loan syndication. 
Through neo for Markets, Treasury Sales 
advanced its role as a trusted provider of 
structured risk management solutions, 
while our trading desks continued to 
serve as active market makers. The 
Loan Syndication desk facilitated credit 
distribution and portfolio diversification 
across domestic and international 
markets. A key milestone was the early 
transition to the Murex Treasury System 
in December 2024, which enhanced risk 
management, efficiency, governance, and 
client experience.
#1 
Ranking in Bloomberg’s DCM 
League table for calendar year 
2024, reinforcing the Bank’s 
leadership in debt capital markets
‘One Axis’
The ‘One Axis’ initiative represents our 
commitment to providing a seamless, 
integrated banking experience through 
our diverse business segments and 
subsidiaries. Through this integrated 
platform, we offer a comprehensive 
suite of services, including lending, 
wealth management, insurance, 
investment banking, and transaction 
banking. By leveraging synergies 
across our ecosystem, we ensure 
comprehensive financial solutions 
tailored to our customers’ needs.
A.TReDS
Partnership to streamline 
MSME payments
17 
MoUs signed with state 
governments, including 
Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, 
Rajasthan, Gujarat, and 
Maharashtra, depending on 
engagement with government
60 
Mandates executed by Axis 
Capital were with the Bank 
customers, thus providing 
end–to–end financial solutions
16% 
Of Burgundy private 
relationships onboarded from 
Wholesale Banking clientele
>50% 
Of Axis Trustee’s new business 
is originated through the Bank’s 
clients reflecting strategic cross 
sell approach
1,092 
Of new salary relationships 
originated from WBCG clients, 
thus enhancing value for 
corporate clients
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
Accelerating Digital Innovation 
neo platform will drive innovative solutions for SaaS, AI, and fintech, 
focusing on real–time FX, API–led payments, and high–impact non–paytech 
segments, such as Insurtech, Wealthtech, and Lendingtech.
Delivering Seamlessly with ‘One Axis’ 
Continue to deliver a seamless, connected experience through ‘One Axis’, 
offering a comprehensive range of services from capital raising to investment, 
estate planning, and employee banking through a single, customer–
first relationship.
Expanding Access 
We are expanding our footprint in India’s thriving startup ecosystem, 
offering entrepreneurs seamless access to banking, advisory, and capital 
through our hub-and-spoke model. Our efforts include contributing in the 
evolving fund ecosystem in collaboration with VCs, incubators, and policy 
platforms to support early and growth-stage ventures.
In line with our sustainability goals, we’ve introduced green and blue 
loans to finance eco-friendly and marine-focused projects, reinforcing our 
commitment to responsible banking and ESG-aligned growth.
Charting the Road Ahead
OUR GROWTH PILLARS FOR FISCAL 2026
107
Business segment performance – Wholesale banking

‘ONE A XIS’ IN AC TION
One platform, infinite 
financial journeys
The ‘One Axis’ Ecosystem brings together the full spectrum of Axis Bank’s financial 
services spanning asset management, retail brokerage, insurance, consumer lending, 
fintech, investment banking, and more through a seamless, integrated platform. By 
uniting the strengths of its subsidiaries and business verticals, the Bank is able to 
offer comprehensive, end–to–end solutions to meet the evolving needs of individuals, 
businesses, and institutions.
Business performance review
Asset 
Management
Invest 
Banking & 
Inst. Equities 
Consumer  
focused  
NBFC 
Retail  
Brokerage 
Trustee 
Fintech  
Platform 
TReDS  
Platform 
Insurance 
Note: 1) Position as on March 31, 2025 and including stakes owned by Axis Capital and Axis Securities  
2) Effective stake held by Axis Group in step down subsidiary
‘One Axis’ Group
One of  
the fastest–
growing 
MF player
Leadership 
position in 
ECM deals 
segment 
AAA rated  
NBFC with  
diversified  
product  
offerings 
3rd largest 
bank–led 
brokerage 
firm 
Amongst 
the leading 
trustees 
in India 
One of the 
major fintech 
players 
in India 
Leading  
player 
on TReDs  
platform 
4th largest  
private 
insurance 
company 
75%
47%2
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
67%
19.02%1  
(Co–promoter), 
Accounting 
Associate 
S1
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
108

‘One Axis’ in action
Power of One
At the heart of Axis Bank’s digital strategy lies a unified, future–ready platform that enables us to serve customers 
seamlessly across channels. With ‘One Axis’, we are transforming how financial services are accessed–integrating AI, 
advanced analytics, and modular tech architecture to personalise experiences, optimise operations and offer a wide  
array of solutions under one digital umbrella.
Wholesale Banking 
Commercial Banking 
Retail Banking 
Investment Banking 
/Capital Markets 
Commercial  
Banking 
Retail  
Banking 
Transaction  
Banking 
Universal Banking 
Reliable Partner throughout the Customer Life Cycle 
2
1
3
4
Debt Capital 
Markets (DCM) 
Working Capital/
Term Loans 
Cash Management 
Services (Collection/ 
Payment) 
Savings accounts 
and other products 
and services 
Letter of Credit 
Bank Guarantee
Current Accounts 
Wealth Management–
Burgundy/
Burgundy Private
Bill Invoice Discounting, 
Supply Chain financing 
Custodial Services 
Wholesale Deposits
Correspondent 
Banking Services
Equity Capital 
Markets (ECM) 
M&A & Advisory 
Forex & 
Derivative Solutions
109

Axis Finance, a leading NBFC, delivers a wide range of lending solutions to wholesale, MSME, and retail clients 
across varied sectors and geographies. With a remarkable 31% CAGR in AUF from fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2025, we 
remain committed to strong operational discipline and prudent risk management, enabled by advanced technology. 
Our offering encompasses retail lending, MSME finance, and credit solutions for mid– and large–sized corporates.
Awards & Recognition
Business performance review
KEY HIGHLIGHTS 
OF FISCAL 2025
FOCUS AREAS FOR 
FISCAL 2026
PERFORMANCE IN 
FISCAL 2025
Retail Segment
Achieved 28% y–o–y 
growth on book assets 
while maintaining resilient 
asset quality
Wholesale Segment
Recorded an 11% y–o–y 
growth, supported by a high–
quality portfolio and industry–
leading asset quality metrics
MSME Segment
Delivered a 30% y–o–y 
growth, with a well–
diversified portfolio including 
theme–based lending to 
healthcare, hospitality, 
education, automobile and 
retail sectors
Expanded Distribution
Present across 225+ locations 
and 59 branches.
Digital Innovation
Continued to invest 
in improving digital 
capabilities, thus enhancing 
customer experience and 
operational efficiency
Funding Diversification
Successfully completed 
maiden External Commercial 
Borrowing (ECB), taking a 
strategic step towards our 
borrowing profile
	»
Expand focus on small 
and micro enterprises to 
enhance portfolio granularity 
and stability
	»
Grow distribution in 
concentric circles to tap the 
immense potential of rural 
and semi–urban markets
	»
Drive customer 
acquisition through direct 
origination, leveraging 
technology to optimise 
operational efficiency
28% 
Growth in Retail  
Loan book*
11%  
Growth in Wholesale  
Loan book* 
 
30% 
Growth in MSME  
Loan book* 
11%
Growth in PAT, reaching  
₹676 crores
14.5%   
Return on Equity (RoE) 
 
20.90%  
Capital to Risk Weighted 
Assets Ratio (CRAR)
*y–o–y growth
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
110

Axis Capital continues to lead in India’s investment banking landscape and institutional equity services, offering 
tailored solutions backed by 40+ years of proven expertise and excellence. Consistently recognised as a top–tier 
advisor and securities firm, our strength lies in our execution precision, client–centricity, and strong leadership. 
In fiscal 2025, our Investment Banking and Institutional Equities divisions delivered record topline performance, 
successfully executing 61 transactions across Equity Capital Markets (ECM) and non–ECM segments.
Awards & Recognition
‘Best ECM House’ at Finance 
Asia Awards
‘Best Investment Bank and 
Best Securities House in India’ 
at Euromoney Securities 
Houses Awards
KEY HIGHLIGHTS 
OF FISCAL 2025
FOCUS AREAS FOR 
FISCAL 2026
PERFORMANCE IN 
FISCAL 2025
	»
Executed marquee equity 
transactions, including the 
Vodafone Idea FPO, IPOs 
of Bajaj Housing, Waaree 
Energies, IGI, and the 
Motherson Sumi QIP 
	»
Recognised as the Most 
Active Technology Banker, 
securing landmark deals 
across consumer tech, 
enterprise tech, and 
fintech sectors
	»
Sustained market 
leadership in the InvIT/
REIT space, advising top–
tier financial sponsors, 
such as KKR, I–Squared 
and Actis
	»
Delivered strong growth 
in Cash & Derivatives 
within the Institutional 
Equities Division (IED), 
driven by an expanding 
domestic client base and 
increased global investor 
engagement through 
strategic roadshows 
and conferences
	»
Enhanced thought 
leadership with a 
robust pipeline of 
thematic research and 
a 15%+ increase in 
coverage universe
	»
Focus on PE fundraises and 
InvITs/REITs to drive growth 
in the non–ECM segment
	»
Optimise deal selection by 
prioritising transactions with 
a high closure probability 
and strategic relevance
	»
Deepen relationships with 
Domestic Institutional 
Investors (DII) and Foreign 
Institutional Investors (FII) to 
sustain momentum in IED
	»
Uphold the highest 
standards of compliance 
and ethics
	»
Invest in technology, 
advancing the AI and 
automation journey
	»
Build a strong pool of high–
potential junior talent to 
develop future leaders and 
ensure long–term growth 
48.6% 
Growth in Investment 
Banking revenue
61  
Investment Banking deals 
executed 
 
#2  
Rank by number of IPOs
₹160.5 crores 
PAT
‘One Axis’ in action
111

Business performance review
Freecharge stands at the forefront of the financial services industry, offering a wide range of innovative 
solutions for merchants and consumers. By combining secure, compliant, and tech–driven platforms, Freecharge 
enables seamless payments, accessible credit, and other services, thus advancing financial inclusion for retail 
users and businesses alike.
Awards & Recognition
Economic Times Human 
Resources (ETHR) Employee 
Experience Award, 2024
Business World People HR 
Excellence Award, 2024
KEY HIGHLIGHTS 
OF FISCAL 2025
FOCUS AREAS FOR 
FISCAL 2026
PERFORMANCE IN 
FISCAL 2025
	»
Expanded the lending 
ecosystem to empower 
customers of microfinance 
institutions (MFIs) and 
MSME merchants, 
reaching 100+ locations
	»
Upgraded the payment 
aggregator platform with 
advanced technology 
enhancements, setting 
new industry standards
	»
Launched innovations in 
UPI, including UPI Lite, 
UPI Global (Android), and 
Aadhaar OTP–based UPI 
PIN setup, reinforcing 
leadership in the 
UPI ecosystem
	»
Introduced Gold OD 
on UPI – a gold–backed 
overdraft product with 
flexible repayments 
options and interest 
charged only on the 
utilised amount
	»
Continue scaling merchant 
and consumer lending 
businesses, leveraging early 
signs of strong growth
	»
Expand strategically into key 
geographies to strengthen 
MFI and merchant 
lending operations
	»
Secure Payment Aggregator 
licence to support business 
scale–up
	»
Continuously refine the 
payment aggregator platform 
to strengthen Freecharge’s 
position as a top–tier 
industry leader
108%  
y–o–y increase of 
Freecharge Payment 
Gateway (FPG) Gross 
Merchandise Value (GMV)
34%
y–o–y growth of Quick 
Response (QR) GMV
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
112

Axis AMC continues to strengthen its position as one of India’s leading asset managers, recognised for its customer–centric 
innovation, disciplined investment approach, and responsible product offerings. Committed to delivering superior value to 
investors across segments, Axis AMC remains committed to upholding transparency, integrating technology, and offering trusted 
advice to drive outcomes. fiscal 2025 was a period of significant growth and innovation for Axis AMC, marked by the successful 
launch of new funds, an expanded passive product suite, and strategic investments in distribution capabilities and global platforms.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS 
OF FISCAL 2025
FOCUS AREAS FOR 
FISCAL 2026
PERFORMANCE IN 
FISCAL 2025
	»
Raised over ₹4,200 
crores through the Axis 
Consumption Fund NFO, 
making it the second–largest 
offering in its category, 
with participation from 
over 9,000 Mutual Fund 
Distributors (MFDs) 
across India
	»
Launched Axis Momentum 
Fund, garnering over 
₹1,400 crores during its 
NFO and further expanding 
the differentiated equity 
fund portfolio through 
differentiated strategy
	»
Strengthened the passive 
product suite with new index 
funds, including the Nifty 
Bank Index Fund, Nifty 500 
Index Fund, and Nifty500 
Value 50 Index Fund
	»
Pioneered the launch of 
Sectoral Target Maturity 
Funds focused on the NBFC 
and Financial Services 
sectors, addressing emerging 
investor preferences
	»
Advanced global footprint 
by establishing a branch in 
GIFT City IFSC, unlocking 
opportunities to offer global 
investment products to 
Indian investors
	»
Continue to launch 
innovative products across 
asset classes, including 
exploring opportunities 
under the new Specialised 
Investment Fund (SIF) 
category introduced by SEBI
	»
Broaden distribution 
footprint by expanding 
branch presence in 
non–metro cities 
and strengthening 
partnerships across wealth 
management channels
	»
Deepen global engagement 
by leveraging the GIFT 
City platform to offer 
differentiated offshore 
investment opportunities
15%
 y–o–y
Assets under management  
at ₹3,05,717 crores as on 
March 31, 2025 
 
₹501 crores
Profit after tax (PAT) 
 
82
Mutual fund schemes 
managed
34.5%
Gender diversity ratio  
(as on March 31, 2025)
‘One Axis’ in action
113

Business performance review
Axis Securities, a subsidiary of Axis Bank, operates as a retail brokerage that offers a wide spectrum of financial solutions through an 
advisory–led model. By leveraging advanced technology and digital capabilities within the ‘One Axis’ ecosystem, Axis Securities delivers 
a seamless experience across lending, investment, and wealth–creation. Through its retail broking platform, Axis Direct, the organisation 
offers a comprehensive suite of solutions in equities, derivatives, mutual funds, fixed income products, and lending. With a strong focus 
on innovation, service excellence, and operational efficiency, Axis Securities continue to empower customers in their financial journeys.
Awards & Recognition
Certified as a Great Place to 
Work® 2024
‘Best Digital Transformation 
Award’ at the e4m CX India 
Awards 2024
KEY HIGHLIGHTS 
OF FISCAL 2025
FOCUS AREAS FOR 
FISCAL 2026
PERFORMANCE IN 
FISCAL 2025
	»
Launched two new 
mobile apps – Axis Direct 
Investor App and Axis 
Direct Traders App – to 
deliver a seamless, tailored 
experience for investors 
and traders
	»
Rolled out Trade Pro, 
an enhanced EXE 
terminal designed for 
high–frequency traders 
(HFTs) and professional 
market participants
	»
Introduced simplified 
and faster journeys for 
IPO and Mutual Fund 
investments across digital 
platforms, enabling more 
informed decision–making 
by customers
Accelerate Digital Growth
Increase digital contribution 
to overall business by 
leveraging the newly launched 
mobile platforms and 
enhancing adoption across 
customer segments
AI–Driven Predictive 
Servicing
Deploy AI and Big Data–
powered bots to proactively 
identify customer needs, offer 
tailored solutions, and enhance 
customer satisfaction
Innovative Self–service 
Platforms
Simplify customer reporting 
and support through intuitive, 
self–help solutions, including 
expanded service delivery 
via WhatsApp and other 
conversational interfaces
Strengthen Risk 
Management and 
Compliance
Maintain a sharp focus on 
operational risk mitigation, 
adherence to compliance, and 
robust information security to 
safeguard customer trust
45%  
Growth in total income 
(y–o–y)
38%
Growth in total customer 
acquisitions
53%  
Of clients traded through  
the mobile app
39%
Growth in profit after  
tax (y–o–y)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
114

Invoicemart, India’s largest Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS) platform, addresses MSME credit gaps by enabling early payments 
through a transparent digital marketplace. It connects MSME sellers with buyers, including Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs), State 
PSUs, corporates, and a network of financiers, through a transparent bidding process, unlocking working capital efficiently. Since its launch, 
Invoicemart has scaled significantly, achieving a base of over 44,300 registered MSMEs, more than 2,980 buyers, and 71 financiers—the 
highest on any TReDS platform. Invoicemart has completed dual ISO certifications for Information Security (ISO 27001:2022) and Cloud 
Security (ISO 27017:2015), and celebrates a milestone in diversity and inclusion. The Company has reached a remarkable 45% representation 
of women in its workforce showcasing its dedication to creating a more inclusive and equitable work environment.
PERFORMANCE FROM JULY 2017 TO MARCH 2025
₹1,80,000+ crores
Throughput
47,300+
Participants onboarded 
40 lakhs+
Invoices discounted 
Axis Pension Fund Management (PFM) Ltd. commenced operations on October 21, 2022, with a mandate to manage National 
Pension System (NPS) funds for retail subscribers, corporate NPS subscribers, and government employees under the NPS. Since 
then, it has solidified its presence as one of the key Pension Fund Managers in the industry.
PERFORMANCE FROM OCTOBER 2022 TO MARCH 2025
D8,854 crores
AUM
3.3%
In AUM 
4.8%
In subscriber base 
303%
y–o–y AUM growth 
Axis Trustee Services Ltd. reinforced its leadership in fiduciary and debt transactions in fiscal 2025, delivering strong performance 
across a broad spectrum of mandates. As a trusted partner in REITs, InvITs, securitisation, and alternate investments, Axis Trustee 
continues to drive innovation and set industry benchmarks. Our Facility Agency business experienced notable growth, especially 
in multi–currency debt transactions in GIFT City. Axis Trustee also enhanced its presence in the Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) 
space and led several first–of–its–kind transactions in India, including roles in aircraft leasing and Small and Medium (SM) REITs.
PERFORMANCE IN FISCAL 2025 (Y–O–Y GROWTH IN TERMS OF NUMBER OF MANDATES)
50%
Facility Agent
17%
Debenture Trustee 
117%
Securitisation 
15%
Alternate Investment Fund (AIF)
‘One Axis’ in action
115

MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT – 
OPER ATIONS AND TR ANSFORMATION
Raising the bar with 
each success
Business performance review
Subrat Mohanty
Executive Director (Banking  
Operations & Transformation)
Dear Shareholders,
Fiscal 2025 marked an important 
chapter in our growth as we advanced 
towards becoming a stronger, more 
resilient franchise. Anchored by our GPS 
strategy, we achieved sustained growth 
and profitability, while simultaneously 
reimagining and reinforcing the 
foundation of our organisation.
In previous updates, I highlighted three 
strategic priorities that continue to 
shape our long–term readiness:
	»
Strengthening and Modernising 
our core systems and processes to 
navigate increasing complexity and 
shifting business dynamics.
	»
Developing future–focused 
capabilities that leverage 
technological advancements 
and respond to evolving 
customer expectations.
	»
Championing responsible business 
practices and setting benchmarks  
in corporate citizenship.
We have made meaningful headway  
in each of these areas.
Strengthening our core
Enhancing customer experience  
and operational efficiency with  
pioneering technology
We remain steadfast in our 
commitment to leverage technology–
driven initiatives that simplify and 
elevate the banking experience for our 
customers. In fiscal 2025, we continued 
to invest in building future–ready 
infrastructure by embracing continuous 
innovation and rapid adoption of 
emerging technologies. Our focus 
areas included lending transformation, 
generative AI (GenAI), hyper–
personalisation, digital payments, and 
seamless cloud integration—all aimed 
at enhancing resilience and delivering 
superior customer experiences.
From an infrastructure perspective, 
we operate from two strategically 
located primary data centres in 
different seismic zones—Mumbai and 
Bengaluru—along with a near–DR data 
centre in Bengaluru. These facilities 
are equipped with high–performance 
wide–area network connectivity 
comprising of leased lines and 
Multiprotocol Label Switching, ensuring 
seamless application delivery across 
domestic and international operations. 
Our Cloud–first and Cloud–native 
strategy has led to the creation of three 
enterprise–grade landing zones and the 
deployment of over 150 applications 
on the cloud. We have adopted 
Continuous Integration/ Continuous 
Delivery practices for more than 100 
applications and became the first 
Indian bank to receive ISO certification 
for cloud security on both AWS and 
Azure platforms.
Fiscal 2025, we also made significant 
strides in Central Bank Digital Currency 
(CBDC) initiatives. We became the first 
bank in our cohort to go live with both 
Android and iOS apps, surpassing key 
adoption milestones with over 0.65 
million registered customers and more 
than 6 million transactions. We are 
also the RBI’s preferred partner for the 
Government–led Programmable CBDC 
initiative, collaborating with various 
ministries and organisations.
Driving operational excellence 
To enhance operational efficiency, 
we launched Axis Deep Intelligence 
(ADI), a GenAI–powered internal 
chatbot now deployed over 5,500 
branches and supporting over 100,000 
employees. We are actively integrating 
AI/ML, automation, and data analytics 
to improve customer engagement, 
streamline operations, and boost 
workforce productivity through  
AI–assisted tools. Additionally, we have 
empowered departments with Co–pilot 
capabilities, deploying over 4,500 bots 
across 1,850+ automated processes.
Investing in capabilities
Empowering employees 
Delivering on our customer service 
promises hinges on the ability of our 
employees to engage with customers 
in a meaningful and contextual manner. 
Our employee platform ‘Siddhi’ 
provides single point access to our 
frontline staff on all products, customer 
engagement and service journeys. 
Today 90,000+ Bank’s employees 
and partners utilise ‘Siddhi’ to gain 
real–time insights and personalised 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
116

Message from the management – Operations and transformation
recommendations, thus enabling every 
interaction to be insightful, meaningful, 
and rewarding. ‘Siddhi’ has been built 
using modern technical architecture 
and data stack and is integrated with 
35+ systems including core banking, 
CRM origination systems, data lakes 
and learning systems. We use advanced 
analytics to deliver personalised 
nudges for customer conversations, 
driving higher impact and customer 
satisfaction. ~ 30% uplift on key 
metrics like Term Deposit (TD) booking, 
Mutual Fund (MF) transactions, credit 
card sales has been observed and ~10 
points Higher Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) of ‘Siddhi’ journeys, leading to 
increased customer satisfaction. 
Customer obsession
Sparsh, our Customer Obsession 
program, is a Bank–wide priority and 
a core area of distinctiveness for us, 
the tenets of which are now ingrained 
across all our 5,800+ branches, every 
customer touchpoint, and amongst all 
our 1,05,000+ colleagues. It aims to 
link initiatives to enhance customer 
satisfaction, leading to improved NPS 
and better business outcomes. We 
have been improving our institutional 
capabilities by empowering our 
employees with Adi (Our Gen AI 
Platform) and Kaleidoscope (a single 
chronological view of customer 
footprint, across various channels to 
improve first–contact resolution). 
We have gained 59 (159 on indexed 
baseline of 100) points on retail NPS in 
fiscal 2025 and retained Rank 2 in India 
in the external benchmarking study 
undertaken by independent agency 
Kantar for Axis Bank.
Analytics for delivering  
customer delight
Customer delight is an outcome 
achieved by consistently delivering 
the right service at the Moments of 
Truths of customer need. Using our 
personalisation engine which has been 
live for over three years now, we have 
seen significant lift in the conversions 
for select products. The engine also 
helps us scan over 
30 million transactions daily and 
create meaningful insights for personal 
finance module live in our mobile 
banking application. 
We are live with 100+ machine 
learning models across diverse 
domains – credit risk, financial crime, 
marketing recommendation engine and 
collections, demonstrating data driven 
decision making across the bank. We 
are also building Machine Learning 
Operations capabilities to ensure 
scalable and efficient development and 
deployment of models and strategies 
with 4,000+ customer features and 
proprietary continuous live monitoring 
toolkits. Our modern data stack 
integrates cloud native tools, real–time 
data pipelines and manage 3+ Peta 
Byte to enable faster analytics.  
Premiumisation of our franchise
We had completed an important 
step on our premiumisation agenda 
with acquisition of Citibank India 
consumer businesses in March 2023 
(Legal Day1) and added diverse talent 
pool of 3200+ Citi employees as part 
of the acquisition. As the second 
leg of the acquisition, we completed 
the migration of customer data 
from Citibank systems to Axis Bank 
systems in July 2024 (Legal Day2). 
This marks full integration of ~2.4 mn 
customers with their multiple products 
migrating into Axis Bank’s platform. 
Customers are now able to access 
the comprehensive suite of Axis’s 
financial solutions.
Fortifying our defences
Digitisation of banking services 
continues to create both newer 
opportunities and threats in many 
areas. One such interesting area is 
fraud prevention, where digitisation is 
both a threat and an opportunity. At 
Axis Bank, we are committed to making 
banking safe and trustworthy for our 
customers. We continue to invest in 
real time transaction and stakeholder 
monitoring, dynamic onboarding 
checks, use of analytics and technology 
across our businesses to not just 
mitigate fraud risk but also build fraud 
prevention as our formidable strength 
and competitive advantage by investing 
in it for the long term. By fostering a 
risk–first culture coupled with customer 
centricity, analytics and technology, 
the bank is building a robust defence 
against fraud thereby proactively 
protecting our customers’ trust and 
ensuring a safer and more secure 
financial landscape. Our award winning 
initiative on “Sanskrit Password” is 
an innovative blend of tradition and 
technology—to enhance digital security 
while reconnecting individuals with 
India’s rich linguistic heritage.
Being a responsible  
corporate citizen
We remain committed to the model 
of banking that fosters a more 
inclusive and equitable economy, 
empowers thriving communities and 
support a healthier planet. Over the 
year, we continued to build a strong, 
stakeholder–focused ESG culture 
at the Bank. Our CSR interventions 
now reach millions of participants 
in all corners of India. Our flagship 
program – ‘Sustainable Livelihoods’, 
achieved a significant milestone by 
impacting 2.05 million participants in 
300 districts in 32 states and union 
territories as of March 31, 2025. Under 
the Axis ‘DilSe’ umbrella, our programs 
in Education reach thousands of 
children especially in the North–east 
and eastern India. This year, the Bank 
introduced sports as a new thematic 
area and is supporting interventions 
from the grassroots to the Olympics 
and Paralympics level.
We are beginning to see the tangible 
outcomes of our steadfast commitment 
to the GPS strategy and transformation 
agenda. With each milestone we reach, 
expectations grow — and so does our 
resolve. We remain deeply motivated 
to sustain this momentum and continue 
delivering against the ever–rising 
aspirations of our stakeholders.
Warm regards, 
Subrat Mohanty 
Executive Director – Banking 
Operations & Transformation 
117

118
Integrated Annual Report 2024–25

Rooted in our promise of ‘Har raah dil se open’, the Bank embraces 
openness — towards people, ideas, progress, and the planet. This 
ethos shapes how we engage with customers, empower employees, 
support communities, and drive responsible banking. It reflects in the 
way we create and share value across stakeholder groups, blending 
empathy with execution, innovation with inclusion, and growth with 
purpose. Through every action, we remain committed to building 
trust and fostering opportunities for all those we serve.
119

Har raah dil se open
Material Issues Linkage
M6
FOR CUSTOMERS – BANKING BE YOND TR ANSAC TIONS
Relationships shaped by our 
dil se open bankers
Our vision of banking goes beyond 
processes and products. It’s 
about the people we serve and 
those who serve them. Our 1.04 
lakhs dil se open Bankers are the 
torchbearers of our culture, driven 
by our collective mission to serve 
with empathy and commitment.
Sparsh – A Culture 
of Genuine Care and 
Customer Obsession
Launched as the Bank’s flagship 
customer obsession program, 
Sparsh was born from our earnest 
belief in genuinely understanding 
customer aspirations. Following 
an extensive exercise to gain 
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
At Axis Bank, every 
customer relationship is 
shaped by our commitment 
to serve – seeking every 
possible ‘raah’ to support, 
empower and add value 
to our customers’ lives. 
With over 1 lakh dil se open 
bankers at the heart of 
our operations, we blend 
human warmth with real–
time intelligence to deliver 
meaningful interactions. 
‘Siddhi’, our intelligent 
frontline companion, 
enhances this connection, 
enabling our teams to serve 
with purpose, precision, and 
a distinctly dil se open spirit.
insights from over 12,000 customers, 
dialogues with more than 1,000 
employees, and global benchmarking 
against 50+ leading organisations, 
Sparsh represents a transformative 
shift in how we perceive 
customer interactions.
Our first phase, Sparsh 1.0, laid the 
foundation for tangible change by 
introducing centralised processes, 
setting targets for key metrics, and 
embedding STAR behaviours. Building 
on this foundation, Sparsh 2.0 is 
designed to link our customer–focused 
initiatives directly with business 
outcomes, ensuring every interaction 
adds value and deepens trust.
S5
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
120

Delighting 
Customers, Every Day
Listening with Intent 
Embedding empathy  
& active listening
Customer Advocacy 
Expanding business 
reach through positive 
word–of–mouth
Focus on Input 
Metrics 
Reducing 
Turnaround Time 
(TAT)
Agile Customer  
Service 
Real time solutions for 
customer complaints  
and follow–up on NPS
Business 
Outcomes 
Driving performance 
through targeted 
customer–centric 
metrics
Customer Loyalty 
Increasing 
engagement by 
becoming the 
primary bank for 
customers
WoW! Moments 
Low–cost, high–impact gestures for customers 
that surprise and delight
KEY FOCUS AREAS OF SPARSH 2.0
Building Blocks of 
Customer Obsession
Crafting Delightful Journeys
We embed WoW! moments into every 
customer journey, making interactions 
distinctive and memorable. The Ignite 
Idea Generation Platform reflects our 
dedication to delighting customers by 
continuously elevating the banking 
experience by leveraging innovative 
ideas from our employees.
For customers – Banking beyond transactions
121

Embedding Sparsh Values in  
Every Employee
Customer–centricity is an integral 
part of our culture, reflected in every 
Axis Banker. Sparsh Week 2024 
exemplified this commitment, with 
pan–bank initiatives engaging over 1.8 
lakh employees and partners, sparking 
heartfelt interactions and reinforcing our 
culture of creating everyday delight.
Measure and Act on Customer 
Feedback
From the top management to frontline 
teams, listening with empathy is 
part of our institutional culture that 
helps us genuinely understand the 
customer. Sparsh Labs help us refine 
our services based on real customer 
insights. By aligning our actions to 
customer feedback and Net Promoter 
Scores (NPS), we ensure meaningful 
responsive service that meets and 
exceeds expectations.
Building Institutional Capabilities
We continually invest in developing 
comprehensive institutional frameworks 
and technology solutions that simplify 
processes and enrich customer 
interactions. Capabilities such as Axis 
Promise and tech–driven platforms like 
Adi and Kaleidoscope exemplify our 
commitment to operational excellence 
and creating customer delight.
Adi, our generative AI assistant, 
empowers employees to self–serve 
and resolve queries instantly across 
44+ products. By reducing backend 
dependency, it boosts frontline 
confidence and agility—enabling 
faster, smarter customer interactions. 
With Adi’s support, employees are 
better equipped to manage queries 
independently and consistently deliver 
delightful customer experiences.
Kaleidoscope, offers internal users a 
unified, chronological view of customer 
foot prints, instances of service failures, 
application status and much more across 
various channels of the Bank.
Ignite: Ideas that Inspire Action
From streamlined home loan bookings 
and insurance processes to QR–
code–powered onboarding solutions, 
Ignite gives life to ideas that enrich 
customer experiences. From 1,000+ 
transformative ideas submitted by our 
people, 50+ have been shortlisted, and 
the three winning ones are now actively 
reshaping our processes and services. 
In fiscal 2025, Ignite also saw deep 
engagement from over 10,000 subsidiary 
and off–role employees, indicating the 
collective enthusiasm across ‘One Axis’. 
Key Innovations
Retail
	»
Independent home loans and 
insurance bookings: Simplifying 
documentation, ensuring quicker 
and seamless issuance of interest 
certificates, thus enabling smooth 
tax compliance.
	»
Real–time KYC compliance via CVL 
KRA API integration: Enhancing 
accuracy, reducing discrepancies, 
and significantly improving 
transactional reliability.
Wholesale
	»
QR code onboarding for Current 
Accounts: Helping businesses 
efficiently manage payments through 
integrated QR solutions and soundbox 
technologies, enabling quicker 
onboarding and simplified collections.
	»
Automated re–KYC reminders for 
Current Accounts: This digital–
first facility enables easy updates 
for unchanged KYC information, 
ensuring hassle–free and 
continuous compliance.
Har raah dil se open
159
Retail Net Promoter Score 
on indexed baseline of 100, 
Since inception of baseline 
(Q1FY23)
#2  
Rank in India external 
benchmarking by Kantar 
among large peer banks
10% 
 y–o–y  
Gross complaints 
~5.9 lakhs  
Net complaints
79  
Wholesale Net Promoter 
Score (from baseline of 33)
98%  
Burgundy 6 Hour Promise  
TAT adherence
3  
SA onboarding TAT  
(No. of days P95)
33  
SEG onboarding TATs 
(No. of days P50)
58%  
Before Time Renewal under 
SEG segment
7.13%  
Social Media Net Sentiment
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
122

Sparsh Week August 2024 Engagement
55,000
In–person customer  
meet–ups
350+
Customer engagements 
across CBG & Wholesale
10,000+
Subsidiary & off–role 
employee engagements
1.8 lakhs+ 
Employees & partners 
engaged
1,000+
Ideas through Ignite
250+
PR coverage
4,500+
Sparsh stories
500+
Senior citizen customers met
50+
Senior leadership participation
100+
Sparsh squads on the ground
For customers – Banking beyond transactions
123

It essentially provides a 
comprehensive snapshot of the 
customer’s relationship with the Bank 
enabling teams to uncover insights, 
identify opportunities for cross–
sell, drive product penetration and 
strengthen the customer’s primary 
banking engagement with the Bank.
Har raah dil se open
‘Siddhi’ – Empowering 
Frontline Employees, 
Enhancing Connections
‘Siddhi’ is the Bank’s dynamic, 
mobile–first platform for its dil se 
open Employees. Today, over 90,000 
of the Bank’s employees utilise 
‘Siddhi’ to gain real–time insights 
and personalised recommendations, 
thus enabling every interaction to be 
insightful, meaningful, and rewarding.
Real–Time Insights, Meaningful 
Interactions
‘Siddhi’ gives frontline bankers real–
time access to customer insights–from 
relationships to past interactions–
enabling meaningful and precise 
service 24x7. With 30+ cross–sell 
journeys across deposits, cards, loans, 
investments, and remittances and 25+ 
service features, every interaction is 
smarter and more rewarding.
The platform enhances the ease of 
doing business by enabling employees 
to provide on–the–go services such 
as instant statement access and 
facilitating business transactions 
real–time while sitting in front of 
the customer.
~30% 
Uplift on key metrics 
like Term Deposit (TD) 
booking, Mutual Fund (MF) 
transactions, credit card sales
~10 points  
Higher Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) of ‘Siddhi’ journeys, 
leading to increased 
customer satisfaction
Personalised Nudges for Deeper 
Conversations
‘Siddhi’ uses advanced analytics to 
deliver personalised insights and 
strategic nudges, with frontline teams 
receiving four or more suggestions 
per interaction. These tailored 
conversations drive higher impact 
and consistently boost customer 
satisfaction, as seen in improved Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) compared to 
traditional channels.
Transforming Everyday Banking
‘Siddhi’ blends technology with a 
human touch, empowering frontline 
teams to nurture lasting customer 
relationships by creating delightful 
customer journeys every day.
360–Degree Customer View
Siddhi’s holistic, 360–degree customer 
view offers bankers real–time 
customer analytics, helping them 
anticipate needs, swiftly address 
queries, and close service requests 
faster, ensuring every customer 
feels valued.
Enhanced Productivity and  
Delightful Service
‘Siddhi’ enhances productivity with 
tools such as a daily calendar that 
prioritises customer interactions, helps 
bankers organise their workday more 
effectively, and devotes sufficient time 
to personalised customer attention. 
The integrated calendar supports 
a consistent customer connect 
rhythm, helping employees plan daily 
interactions more effectively. This 
drives deeper engagement within their 
mapped book and enhances outreach 
to the existing customer base.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
124

When a senior citizen visited a 
branch intending to prematurely 
close his ₹30 lakhs FD, Bank Officer 
Sivaprakash sensed something 
was amiss. The customer seemed 
unusually tense and was found to 
be receiving instructions from a 
fraudster via WhatsApp. Acting 
swiftly, Sivaprakash alerted 
Operations Head Sasikala and 
Branch Head Kavitha Venkatesan. 
Though the customer initially 
resisted their concern, the team 
patiently explained similar scam 
cases. When the fraudster called 
again, Kavitha insisted on a video 
call, causing the fraudster to hang 
up and erase all chat history.
Through quick thinking and 
teamwork, the branch staff 
prevented the customer from losing 
his life savings and protected him 
from being defrauded.
“This is an immensely satisfying and 
proud moment for Axisians.  
The presence of mind displayed 
by our young colleague, Sri 
Sivaprakash, is commendable. His 
decision to escalate the matter to 
senior branch officials, combined 
with the smart actions of the 
branch leadership team, collectively 
prevented a significant financial loss 
for our customer.” – P. Devarajan, 
Senior Vice President,  
Chennai, South 2
Late Sonam Chahal, Deputy 
Manager at the Bank’s Gurugram 
Sector 17 branch, was committed 
to exceptional service, which 
made her not just a colleague 
but a role model and a true Axis 
brand ambassador.
“She was a very special girl,” 
recalled Retired Air Chief Marshal 
N.C. Suri, in a letter written in 
appreciation of Sonam’s service 
excellence. He requested that the 
letter be shared with her family, 
as they coped with the pain of her 
irreparable loss. We visited Sonam’s 
home and conveyed our deepest 
condolences while sharing with 
her parents her remembrance as 
someone “full of compassion and 
concern for others”. Her kindness, 
work ethic, and joyful spirit 
continue to live on, embodying our 
cherished Sparsh values.
Today, we celebrate the inspiration 
she has become. People like Sonam 
never truly leave us; they continue 
to shine, reminding us to be better, 
kinder, and more dedicated to our 
daily commitments. 
SPARSH 2.0 Stories
Courage, Empathy and Timely Action
Remembering Sonam Chahal and her Legacy of Excellence
Sivaprakash
Manager, Branch Banking 
Porur, Chennai, South 2
Late Mrs. Sonam Chahal
Deputy Manager,  
Branch Banking 
Sector 17, Gurugram
For customers – Banking beyond transactions
125

Har raah dil se open
Material Issues Linkage
M6
M7
M9
FOR CUSTOMERS – BANKING IN THE DIGITAL–FIRST ER A
Innovating with a  
digital–first approach
Since 2019, we have been on an 
ambitious mission to redefine 
banking by investing in building 
robust digital capabilities.  
Our digital team, which includes 
dedicated engineers and creative 
designers, focuses on developing 
pioneering digital solutions that 
enrich customer experiences at 
every touchpoint. Harnessing 
advanced platforms like DevSecOps 
and secure cloud infrastructure, 
we proudly deliver cutting–edge 
digital products that resonate deeply 
with customers.
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Digital is at the core 
of how we imagine 
the future of banking. 
We continue to invest 
heavily in building 
proprietary technologies 
and in–house capabilities 
to deliver digital–first 
products tailored for 
evolving needs. We focus 
on creating seamless, 
secure, and scalable 
experiences that 
elevate every customer 
interaction across  
every touchpoint.
Digital Strategy
Build and scale a fully–digital  
bank within the Bank 
‘open’ by  
Axis Bank
Extend the capabilities of 
‘open’ across the Bank 
Enabling assisted 
digital journeys
S2
S5
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
126

‘open’ by Axis Bank: Banking Transformed
‘open’ by Axis Bank is our flagship 
digital banking entity, operating 
autonomously within the Bank and 
contributing ~6% to the overall 
business. With a sharp focus on 
customer acquisition, business 
expansion, and profitability, ‘open’ 
offers end–to–end digital journeys 
across 30+ products spanning savings, 
investments, payments, and both 
secured and unsecured lending.  
Every experience—from digital 
onboarding to seamless servicing,  
is designed to be intuitive,  
efficient, and secure.
Built to promote transparency 
and accessibility, ‘open’ has grown 
steadily, delivering 15% growth in 
assets and 47% in liabilities in fiscal 
2025. We continue to build on our 
ambition of becoming a digital leader 
in consumer lending. Our leadership 
in the Account Aggregator ecosystem 
has strengthened underwriting for 
new–to–bank (NTB) customers, while 
a growing number of partnerships are 
accelerating digital loan origination.
Customer experience remains at the 
core of digital banking. The ‘open’ app 
offers personalised nudges across 
multiple features. Innovations like 
‘One View’ (India’s first private bank 
offering to aggregate multi–bank and 
demat accounts) and a transparent 
‘Benefits’ dashboard further elevate 
Mobile Banking, making it genuinely 
open, effortless, and engaging.
For customers – Banking in the digital–first era
~3 crores   
Registered customer base  
for Mobile Banking 
47%  
Credit Cards are issued 
digitally end–to–end
15 million+
Mobile Banking active 
monthly users
4.8   
Rating of mobile application 
on the Apple App Store 
4.7   
Rating of mobile application 
on the Google Play Store
127

Highlights
What ‘open’ by Axis Bank Brings to Life
Unified dashboard to view all 
bank and demat accounts via 
Account Aggregator
100% digital account opening 
(Special Edition Amaze Account for 
young, digital–first customers)
In–house video KYC platform 
and used Bank–wide Accessible 
to partners
Instant utility bill payments via 
the ‘open’ app
Fully–digital onboarding,  
cross–sell, upsell & servicing
Investment platform for MFs, 
digital gold, PPF – personalised 
investor journeys
Flagship innovations
First
Private bank in India to offer this 
advantage
1 million+
Users
₹20,000
Average balance/account with 
exclusive benefits on spend activation
12.8 lakhs 
Accounts opened through VCIP
55%
Growth on BBPS categories  
(Utilities) of BillPay
83%
Of Credit Card engagement is  
now digital
₹152 crores
In fee income
One View
ASAP Digital 
Savings Account
VISION – Video KYC
Olive – Credit 
Card Journeys
BillPay
Har raah dil se open
Digital IN5NITE: Celebrating 
5 Years of Digital Leadership
In fiscal 2025, the Bank hosted 
Digital IN5NITE, a three–day event, 
celebrating innovation, impact, and 
future growth in Digital Banking. 
The event featured strategic 
workshops, panel discussions, and 
industry interactions, reflecting our 
digital journey and reaffirming our 
commitment to building a digital–first 
dil se open bank.
Insta Invest
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
128

Our New Digital Offerings
We expanded our digital product 
suite in fiscal 2025 with several 
additions that enhance convenience, 
transparency, and financial wellbeing.
My Money – Your Personal  
Finance Partner
A powerful personal finance 
manager that offers a 360° view of 
a customer’s net worth by auto–
fetching assets and liabilities. It 
provides insights on spending patterns, 
access to credit scores, and tools for 
managing insurance, all designed 
to help customers make informed 
financial decisions.
Credit Card against Fixed  
Deposit
Customers can now apply for a Credit 
Card backed by their FD without 
liquidating it or compromising on 
interest. With zero paperwork and 
flexible limits, this offering also helps 
build credit history.
One View – Unified Financial 
Tracking
We are the first private bank to launch 
this game–changing feature. While 
customers could already link and 
monitor all their Bank accounts in One 
View, in fiscal 2025 we also launched 
the option to link demat holdings. This 
feature uses the Account Aggregator 
ecosystem and offers customers 
complete visibility and control over 
their finances.
Fixed Deposit via UPI
Customers can now open an FD 
instantly using funds from any bank 
account via UPI or Net Banking. This 
eliminates the need for beneficiary 
addition or fund transfers beforehand.
Project neo: Reimagining 
the Future of Wholesale 
Banking
We are building India’s most future–
ready Digital Wholesale Bank, driven 
by a deep understanding of how 
our clients run their businesses, not 
just how they use banking products. 
neo is designed around customer 
journeys — tailored by segment, 
business size, digital maturity, and 
user persona. Whether a high–growth 
MSME or a complex large enterprise, 
neo adapts seamlessly to deliver the 
right experience.
A cloud–native solution 
that combines Payments, 
Trade, Forex and more 
under one unified 
platform, enabling rapid 
scaling and flexibility.
A plug–and–play API 
suite for seamless ERP 
integration, ensuring 
that banking becomes 
a native part of every 
business workflow.
With 135+ live APIs, 
it empowers clients 
to integrate directly 
into our banking 
infrastructure, 
making co–
creation real–time 
and impactful.
A digital boost for 
treasury clients, driving 
higher adoption through 
more innovative, 
streamlined interfaces.
Tailored for MSMEs, 
this platform combines 
banking and non–
banking services into 
a single, intuitive 
experience, simplifying 
operations and 
amplifying growth.
neo for 
Corporates
Corporate 
Developer 
Portal
Axis neo 
Connect
neo for 
Markets
neo for 
Business
neo in 
Action 
For customers – Banking in the digital–first era
129

Har raah dil se open
Material Issues Linkage
M1
M6
M9
FOR CUSTOMERS – BHAR AT BANKING
Fuelling dreams, 
driving development
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Bharat Banking is our 
focused approach to 
empower customers 
across emerging India 
with seamless, digital–first 
financial solutions. Backed 
by rising formalisation, 
digital adoption, and 
growing financial 
awareness, Bharat markets 
present a transformative 
opportunity. With a 
customer–centric model 
and deep distribution, 
we are building a distinct 
ecosystem to drive 
inclusive growth and 
lasting impact.
D98,232 crores
Agri loan book 
 7% y–o–y growth
234 
BC banking outlets
2 lakhs
New accounts opened via  
BC network 
28,000+
CSCs network
D729 crores
AEPS transaction volume 
 
D8,331 crores
Loan disbursements
Empowering the 
Grassroots
During the year, we made 
meaningful progress in deepening 
financial inclusion by strategically 
expanding our presence across 
Rural and Semi–Urban (RuSu) 
markets. Our extensive on–ground 
network spans across 2,736 
dedicated branches, backed by a 
vast Business Correspondent (BC) 
infrastructure. This ecosystem 
ensures that reliable, inclusive 
banking services are delivered 
directly to the doorstep of even 
the most remote communities. 
Our continued focus on 
accessibility and empowerment 
resulted in strong outcomes in 
fiscal 2025, as evidenced by 
increased transactional volumes, 
new account openings, and 
enhanced credit access. 
S3
S5
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
130

Expanded Market Coverage
	»
Deep penetration into RuSu markets
	»
Robust network, together with branches, BC points, and tailored offerings
	»
Enhanced customer acquisition, financial literacy and market share growth
Financial Inclusion
	»
Empowering millions through tailored credit, insurance and savings solutions
	»
Localised credit policies, ensuring products fit regional needs
	»
Last–mile connectivity driving grassroots economic empowerment
Business Correspondent Model
	»
Rapid expansion into unbanked and underserved regions
	»
Extensive BC network, reducing infrastructure costs
	»
Seamless service delivery at the doorstep, enhancing financial access
Driving Profitable Growth 
	»
Leveraging robust credit demand in agri & MSME segments
	»
Enhanced returns through customised end–to–end financial solutions
	»
Sustainable profitability from risk–adjusted, longer–tenure products
Priority Sector Lending (PSL) 
	»
Contributes over 80% to organic Small & Marginal Farmers (SMF) PSL targets
	»
Strategic focus on farm credit, MFI, tractors, gold loans and micro PSL
	»
Efficiently meets regulatory benchmarks, driving compliant growth
For customers – Bharat banking
Benefits of Bharat Banking
131

Har raah dil se open
	»
Our Mandi Ecosystem deepened rural economic engagement in 423 
Mandis, generating over 1.47 lakh leads with a 23% conversion rate. 
This resulted in ₹313 crores in CASATD Monthly Daily Average Balance 
(MDAB) and ₹191.63 crores in Asset Disbursement, thereby enhancing 
rural prosperity.
	»
Through an expanded Partnership Ecosystem, we formed 15 new 
alliances, bringing our total to over 50 active partnerships. These 
strategic collaborations enhanced our market reach, integrated us into 
corporate value chains, and bridged critical service gaps.
	»
We strengthened our Bharat Banking reach by opening 250+ new 
branches. Our reach also includes 28,000+ CSCs, driven by Village–level 
Entrepreneurs, ensuring last–mile connectivity.
	»
Embracing localised credit policies, we tailored financial products to 
diverse regional needs, enhancing financial access and driving deeper 
market penetration into previously underserved customer segments.
	»
Our digital acceleration efforts led to the adoption of digital capabilities 
such as eKYC, eNACH, eSign, and eStamp. Farm mechanisation became 
fully digital, achieving 100% SFDC (Loan Origination System) adoption. 
Microfinance transitioned to a fully digital process. Continue to focus on 
digitisation of all the streams of Bharat Banking.
	»
Connecting the Dots (CTD) redefined our customer engagement 
by generating over 2.87 lakh leads, and converting more than 
97,000 customers.
KEY INITIATIVES IN FISCAL 2025
250+   
New Bharat Banking 
branches opened in  
fiscal 2025
10,000+ 
New customer relationships 
forged through Connecting 
the Dots
15 
New strategic partnerships 
initiated 
Innovative Products Crafted for Bharat’s Banking Needs
Gold Loan Overdraft on UPI
Enabling instant fund access 
through UPI for merchant 
payments from overdraft accounts; 
provides customers with maximum 
flexibility, convenience, and 
financial independence.
Mid–Term Loan (MTL)  
for MFI Customers
A targeted loan bridging short–
term and long–term credit needs, 
empowering micro–entrepreneurs 
with swift disbursals, structured 
repayments, and sustainable 
economic growth.
Co-lending
Initiated co-lending partnerships 
to strengthen our outreach in 
Bharat markets. The platform is 
now operational with 18 unique 
partners across 22 relationships.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
132

For customers – Bharat banking
How We Promoted 
Financial Inclusion
We focused on empowering 
underserved communities across 
Bharat, ensuring financial services 
reached them at their doorstep.
Expanding the BC Network 
We grew our Business Correspondent 
network by increasing BC points, 
BCBOs, and VLEs; dedicated financial 
facilitators ensured convenient 
and inclusive service delivery at 
the grassroots.
Technology–driven Banking 
Leveraging the ‘open’ platform, 
API integrations, and e–KYC, we 
enabled real–time services through 
BC partners. Collaborations with 
Technology Service Providers (TSPS) 
and fintechs drove seamless B2C and 
B2B efficiency.
Enhancing Access 
Wider adoption of Aadhaar–enabled 
Payment Services (AePS) improved 
digital banking reach in remote areas; 
BCs facilitated transactions and 
generated leads.
Driving National Initiatives for 
Inclusive Growth 
Through our active participation in 
schemes such as Pradhan Mantri 
Vishwakarma Yojana, PMSVANidhi (PM 
Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi), 
PMEGP (Prime Minister’s Employment 
Generation Program), NULM (National 
Urban Livelihoods Mission), NRLM 
(National Rural Livelihoods Mission), 
PMMY (Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana), 
AIF (Agriculture Infrastructure Fund), 
FPO (Farmer Producer Organisation), 
and PMFME (PM Formalisation of 
Micro Food Processing Enterprises 
Scheme), we expanded our support to 
micro–entrepreneurs, artisans, street 
vendors, women, small–scale industries, 
and farmers. 
Focused Support for National and 
State–sponsored Schemes 
By deepening our involvement in 
various government–sponsored 
schemes, we ensured individuals 
and businesses across Bharat had 
access to formal financial services. 
We actively supported initiatives 
like SWAYAM (Self–Employment 
and Skill Development Scheme), 
MMAPUY (Mukhyamantri Antyodaya 
Parivar Utthan Yojana) in Haryana, 
CMEGP (Chief Minister’s Employment 
Generation Program) in Maharashtra, 
MMUKY (Mukhyamantri Udyam 
Kranti Yojana) in Madhya Pradesh, 
ASY (Aajeevika Samvardhan Yojana) 
in Chhattisgarh, CMMFI (Chief 
Minister’s Micro Finance Initiative) 
in the Northeast, and WBBCCS 
(West Bengal Bhabishyat Credit 
Card Scheme) in West Bengal. These 
schemes directly address regional 
economic challenges, enabling 
targeted financial interventions 
that uplift local communities and 
strengthen regional economies.
Championing Financial Literacy 
By promoting digital banking literacy, 
we ensure that communities can 
confidently embrace and utilise 
financial services. We pay special 
emphasis on empowering women 
through tailored loans, microfinance 
solutions, and savings products, 
fostering self–reliance at the 
grassroots level.
80%
Contribution to 
Organic  
SMF PSL
133

Integrated Annual Report 2024–25
Our people play an integral 
role in shaping the future of 
the Bank, ensuring business 
development and growth through 
their commitment and strategic 
contribution. We foster a culture 
that encourages continuous 
learning, adaptability, and a sense 
of responsibility and leadership 
at all levels. Our workplace is 
designed to be agile, inclusive, 
FOR EMPLOYEES
Enabling continuous learning 
and collective growth
SDGs Impacted
Capital Linkage
Our greatest strength 
is our people — bankers 
who lead with empathy, 
act with integrity, and 
seize every opportunity 
to support customers, 
communities, and 
colleagues. Our culture of 
openness fosters trust and 
collaboration. By focusing 
on learning and  
a value–driven culture,  
we empower our 
employees to thrive.
Har raah dil se open
Material Issues Linkage
M11
104,453
Total employees
D0.25 crores
Profit per employee
and employee–centric, where talent  
is developed, diverse ideas are valued, 
and individuals are supported in their 
professional journey through  
a robust learning architecture. From 
facilitating career transition through 
initiatives like ‘thrive’, to ensuring 
employee wellbeing through holistic 
wellness programs, we are committed 
to supporting our employees at every 
stage of their journey. 
28,910
Total women in workforce
S5
M13
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
134

For employees
Opening Doors to the Best Talent 
Our Campus 
Hiring Programs 
in Fiscal 2025 
44 Management Trainees, 108 Interns
In the leadership pipeline from  
top–tier B–schools (IIMs, ISB, etc.)
25 women leaders
Onboarded from 
executive MBA 
cohorts into 
mid–senior roles, 
contributing 
to diversity
393 hires
From other 
B–schools 
across business functions
113
Engineers hired from 
IITs, NITs and top 
tech universities
4,004 BROs
Onboarded through flagship 
program for branch banking officers
5,575
Frontliners trained 
and deployed 
through the Hire–
Train–Deploy model 
for Frontline Sales
Multiple units
Of customised 
HTDs for Retail 
Operations, 
Lending, Bharat 
Banking, 
and more
59
Hired through Open 
Campus program 
to recruit young 
talent from diverse 
disciplines, enhancing 
skills diversity
Ongoing
Efforts to source niche talent from 
Law, Design, and CA campuses
    
   
   
A
xis
 S
al
es
 
   
Hi
re
–T
ra
in
–D
ep
lo
y
    
   
    
   
 A
RI
SE
    
   
    
  
We
Le
ad
   
   
    
  
As
pi
re
    
   
    
    
 A
BL
e
    
    
 T
ec
h 
Hi
rin
g
AB
Y
B: 
Ax
is
 B
an
k
Yo
u
ng
 B
an
ke
rs
 A
c
ad
e
m
y 
(A
S
A)
   
   
   
  (
H
T
D)
    
    
   
 A
HE
A
D
   
Sp
ec
ia
lis
t 
Hi
rin
g
The Bank continues to invest in and scale its 
capabilities to meet its key skill and talent needs 
through campus programs and partnerships. 
In fiscal 2025, these initiatives brought in over 
10,000 joiners. Efforts focused on launching new 
programs and enhancing existing ones to address 
critical skill needs.
Additionally, the Bank entered into two new 
partnerships – one, to meet emerging demand 
in rural and semi–urban locations, and two, 
to tap into new talent pools through a digital 
service provider.
31,674   
Total new hires
25.5%
Turnover rate of 
employees
34%
Hiring diversity rate
D6,187
Average hiring cost per FTE
D12,193 crores 
Staff cost
10,000+
Employees hired from campus 
and academia programs
133 hires 
For Corporate 
roles from 
new IIMs 
& equivalents
135

Nurturing a Culture of Lifelong Learning
At Axis Bank, learning is a continuous 
process. We have built an ecosystem 
where every employee, at every stage 
of their career, has the opportunity 
to learn, evolve, and lead. We foster 
a workplace where knowledge is 
shared openly, learning is immersive, 
and growth is limitless. At the heart 
of our learning ecosystem is the 
Open Learning Lab (OLL), an AI–
powered hub offering role–based 
courses, fintech certifications, and 
leadership training. 
We have established 11 Capability 
Factories to enhance banking 
knowledge. The Capability Factory 
and Skill Academy equip employees 
with advanced, role–specific skills for 
immediate impact. Our structured 
approach provides focused upskilling 
programs to deepen expertise 
in areas like branch banking and 
relationship management.
One of our key learning initiatives in 
fiscal 2025 has been the Knowledge 
Transfer Program (KTP), which builds 
sales capability in frontline employees 
through drip–based learning. Designed 
as a learning sustenance program, it 
guides new joiners in engaging with 
their supervisors within their first 
90 days, enabling senior employees 
to mentor juniors and improve lead 
conversion while reducing attrition.  
We are building the next generation 
of leaders who can lead with purpose, 
agility, and openness through 
focused programs.
Our Leadership Growth Programs
Some of our other high–impact 
learning initiatives include:
	»
Headstart – Organisational 
induction program integrating new 
joiners into the ecosystem.
	»
XPert – Honing communication skills 
of front–line managers & supervisors 
to better represent brand Axis.
	»
High–Performing Leaders (HPL) –  
6–month supervisory capability 
program integrating a unique 
combination of self–learning series 
and live practice sessions.
A 2–day classroom training 
curated for mid to senior level 
leaders, this program focuses 
on strategic thinking, customer–
centricity, and people–
first leadership.
A six–month, one–on–one 
coaching journey for our senior 
leaders to develop leadership 
behaviours & growth mindset. 
It is focused on enhancing 
emotional intelligence, resilience, 
and personal growth.
A monthly, high–impact live 
session led by industry and 
internal thought leaders. With 
over 4,000 employees attending 
regularly, these sessions bridge 
vision with action and spark 
cross–level inspiration.
1,000 Change Leaders
BetterUp Coaching
Leader Class
	»
Go Beyond – 6–24–month  
skill–building initiative for frontline 
employees across departments for 
accelerating productivity. 
	»
Academia – Train and deploy 
model for freshers from colleges/
institutes through classroom 
and on–the–job learning 
through internships.
	»
Axis Competency Profiler –  
A mandatory online assessment 
on Brand Axis, Domain, Customer 
Management, and Risk & 
Compliance for all employees 
across the organisation.
6 million+ hours   
Total learning hours of 
employees in fiscal 2025
1,00,000+  
Employees
10+  
Skill factories 
Har raah dil se open
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
136

Championing a Diverse, Inclusive  
and Equitable Workplace 
The Bank is committed to fostering 
a workplace where diverse voices 
are valued, inclusion is intentional, 
and opportunities are equitable. Our 
DE&I strategy—rooted in empathy and 
purposeful action—aims to create a 
culture of belonging. In pursuit of 30% 
women’s representation by fiscal 2027, 
we are scaling diverse hiring across all 
functions and launching initiatives that 
reflect our values.
We champion opportunities for 
all identities—from second–career 
women to LGBTQIA+ employees—
through inclusive hiring, mentorship, 
accessibility, and progressive 
policies. Our efforts also extend to 
communities and industry to advance 
DE&I across society. 
Building an Inclusive Workspace
From Bias to Inclusion:
In fiscal 2021, the Bank launched “Pause 
for Bias” in new joiner induction to raise 
awareness of inherent biases. 
This initiative evolved into the “Gateway 
to Inclusion” program, promoting 
everyday inclusion. With over 16,000 
people managers engaged, the 
Bank ensures diverse perspectives 
shape decisions.
From Advocacy to Action:
The Bank’s “Women in Sales” resource 
group, led by 30 senior leaders and 
100 employees, supports women 
through mentoring and capacity 
building, elevating women’s success  
in sales.  
From Alignment to Reimagination:
Breaking heuristic patterns in hiring, 
the #HouseWorkIsWork campaign 
continues to champion homegrown 
skills. Attracting over 4,000 
candidates, it redefines career breaks 
as fresh starts enriched with  
life–taught skills.
33,000+
Women impacted in 
rural India through 
Axis Women in Motion 
programs
27.7%  
Diversity ratio as on 
March 31, 2025
1.01  
Ratio of fixed pay of 
women to men
For employees
Training and Development
58.6
Average person hours 
of training – All eligible 
employees 
71%
Share of trainings conducted 
online/e–learning
137

From Fitting–In to Standing Out: 
Through the #ComeAsYouAre 
Charter, the Bank fosters an inclusive 
environment for LGBTQIA+ employees 
and customers, with progressive 
policies like partner health coverage, 
inclusive leave, and gender–affirming 
dress codes. The Pride365 group has 
grown from 7 to over 1,000 members, 
representing diverse queer identities.
From Uniformity to Personalised 
Accessibility: The Bank is committed 
to building an inclusive workplace 
where individuals with disabilities 
can thrive. By learning from their 
experiences, we enhance awareness 
and sensitivity across the organisation. 
Their Key Result Areas (KRAs) are 
tailored to individual strengths, 
ensuring equitable growth.
Har raah dil se open
Listening with Empathy
At Axis, we have built a multi–layered 
listening architecture that fosters an 
environment where feedback flows 
freely and every employee feels 
valued, heard, and connected to a 
shared purpose.
We are committed to continuous 
listening through a blend of internal  
and external touchpoints.  
Our AI–enabled sensing channel–
Amber, keeps us closely connected 
to employee sentiment in real time 
– engaging over 49,000 employees in 
95,000+ conversations. This year we 
reached out to 20,000+ frontline Sales 
Executives, capturing feedback from 
Day 3 of their journey with us.  
Women as Independent Economic 
Entities: Axis Women in Motion, the 
Bank’s grassroots effort, has reached 
over 25,000 people across towns, 
hinterlands and talukas. This program 
focuses on encouraging women 
to become independent economic 
entities. 
Students as Future DE&I Champions 
at the Workplace: To nurture 
future inclusive leaders, the Axis 
DE&I curriculum on Building and 
Leading Inclusive Organisations 
was implemented in 20 academic 
institutions, certifying over 800 
students. These sessions equip 
emerging leaders to foster and sustain 
inclusive workplaces.
Building Inclusive Industries and 
Businesses: This year the Bank’s 
initiative “Axis VIBE”, (varsity of 
inclusive business enterprises), 
reaching 165 organisations, continued 
to champion robust DE&I practices 
and nurture a collaborative ecosystem 
valuing equity and inclusion.  
Using Interactive Mediums like 
Podcasts for Advocacy: Axis Bank’s 
Women in Banking podcast features 
women leaders discussing themes like 
career gaps, financial empowerment, 
entrepreneurship, tech, sales, and 
risk–taking. These 20–30 minute 
episodes aim to inspire inclusion 
and encourage women to pursue 
professional growth.  
Value Scorecard
73%
Ownership
63%  
Teamwork
87%  
Transparency
70%   
Ethics
84%  
Customer Centricity
Additionally, our Values Voices 
survey further gauges how deeply 
our culture and values are embraced. 
Each year, we run the survey to assess 
alignment with our five core values—
ownership, teamwork, transparency, 
ethics, and customer centricity. In 
fiscal 2025, following a major cultural 
transformation, we launched the 
updated survey in January based on our 
refreshed Values framework.
The scores were presented to the 
leadership in the form of the Values 
Scorecard and are being used to 
establish a baseline for tracking our 
progress moving forward. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
138

Pride in Axis
94%
Are proud to represent Axis in 
conversations with customers
94%
Believe Axis Bank is well–
positioned to win in the future
For employees
We also benchmark ourselves against global standards through external platforms like Great Place to Work® (GPTW),  
to validate progress and uncover opportunities for meaningful improvement. 
Our centralised HR query resolution platform, HResponse, handled 83,482 employee queries in fiscal 2025, ensuring  
a seamless support experience for employees. 
As part of our continuous listening approach, these multiple avenues help surface recurring themes and employee 
concerns, enabling proactive improvements in policies, communication, and service delivery, thereby impacting 
overall engagement.
92%
Feel good about the ways in which 
Axis Bank contributes to the society
90%
Feel their family and friends believe 
that Axis Bank is a good place 
to work
91%
Recommend Axis as a great place 
to work
139

	»
Programs like Back to Work, Leading 
with Empathy, and Moms at Work 
ensure smooth transitions and 
inclusive support post–maternity.
	»
Wellness Sherpa Program:  
306 employees, including Pride365 
Sherpas, were trained as emotional 
first aid providers—fostering 
allyship and peer support across 
the organisation through this 
flagship program.
Preventive Health Checks
9,000+ employees aged 40+ 
participated in Master Health Check–
ups and TMT tests, saving over ₹2 
crores—underscoring our commitment 
to proactive care.
Everyday Wellness Access
Virtual consultations, wellness 
dashboards, and exclusive discounts 
enabled 5,400+ prescriptions and 
3,200+ tests—making health support 
seamless and accessible.
Financial Wellbeing & Security 
Tailored financial literacy programs, 
loan offerings, and insurance benefits 
empower employees to manage their 
finances with confidence.
Flexibility & Work–Life Balance 
We encourage work–life balance. 
Through our GIGA (remote work) 
framework, parental leave and 
sabbatical policies, employees enjoy 
the flexibility to align work with life.
Wellness Webinars 
42 health–focused webinars—including 
art therapy, personality doodles, desk 
yoga and aromatherapy workshops 
—offered moments of learning, 
healing, and connection across 
the organisation.
Caring for Our People
At Axis, we believe that when we care 
for our people, they care for all that 
we create together. In fiscal 2025, 
we redefined wellbeing—not as a 
benefit, but as a way of life—infused 
with empathy, purpose, and vitality. 
We’ve built a culture where every 
step toward wellness is a shared win, 
and every individual is empowered to 
thrive. Here’s how we bring this to life:
Comprehensive Health Coverage 
Our Mediclaim Policy offers peace 
of mind with fast, transparent, and 
compassionate claim support—
ensuring employees and their families 
are protected when it matters most.
Mental Wellness 
Over 17,000 employees engaged 
with our counselling ecosystem 
supported by expert counsellors and 
our Chief Wellness Officer—fostering 
resilience and emotional wellbeing. 
We continue to strengthen our mental 
wellbeing agenda with a host of 
additional initiatives.
	»
Queer–affirmative professionals 
delivered nearly 2,000 hours 
of support through 1,849 one–
on–one and 117 group sessions, 
reaching 1,366 individuals across 
diverse backgrounds.
	»
Multimodal Therapy, including 
Talk therapy, CBT, and experiential 
methods like dance movement 
therapy and psychodrama helped 
employees express their emotions.
	»
Group sessions on stress, grief, and 
mental fitness were conducted. 
Free counselling is also extended 
to employees’ family including 
children, partners, and queer 
families of choice. 
Har raah dil se open
D280 crores+  
invested in 
employee  
wellbeing
Occupational Health and Safety 
(OHS) Policy
In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank 
institutionalised a comprehensive 
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 
Policy, reinforcing our commitment 
to a safe, healthy, and inclusive 
workplace. The policy integrates key 
frameworks—including Mediclaim, 
Wellbeing, Group Term Life Insurance, 
Employee Care Benevolent Fund, and 
POSH—into a single, holistic approach 
to employee care.
A cross–functional OHS Working 
Group, comprising HR, Sustainability & 
CSR, Ethics, Risk, and CRES, oversees 
implementation and performance via 
a dedicated dashboard. This initiative 
places safety, health and dignity at the 
heart of our culture.
The OHS Policy can be accessed 
here: https://www.axisbank.com/
docs/default–source/quarterly–
reports/occupational–health–
and–safety–policy.pdf
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
140

Living our Values, Together
For employees
At Axis Bank, we take pride in 
upholding our five core values, which 
form the foundation of our business 
strategy – ownership, teamwork, 
transparency, ethics, customer centricity. 
These values are pivotal in fostering a 
high–performance culture within the 
organisation and our goal is that All of Us 
at Axis live these values All the Time.
Since the launch of our Values in 2019, 
the Bank has consistently embedded 
them across the employee’s journey. In 
fiscal 2025, we refreshed the framework 
to align the value behaviours with 
strategic business priorities. A Steering 
Committee comprising 12 leaders was 
set up and after 300+ conversations 
with employees and leaders, 1,400 
committee man–hours, and 3 in–depth 
culture workshops with leaders of the 
Axis Group, a new set of behaviours 
were drafted. The articulation is 
aspirational and emphasises on 
collective ownership. To embed the 
refreshed values, 85 senior leaders—
including the Management Committee—
conducted sessions across 70 cities, 
reaching over 4,500 people managers to 
ensure last–mile adoption in their teams.
Further, we expanded our network 
of Axis Values Realisers (AVRs) from 
1,332 to 2,339. They play a critical role 
in embedding a value–driven culture 
throughout the organisation via  
year–round sessions.
Fostering Transparency and Fairness
Transparency—one of our core 
values—shapes a culture of 
openness and trust at Axis Bank. 
Through open–door leadership and 
strong whistleblower policies, we 
uphold ethical conduct at every 
level, ensuring a safe, respectful 
environment where everyone 
can thrive. 
Performance Management
Our performance management system 
is built on objectivity, featuring Key 
Results Areas (KRAs) and 360–degree 
feedback. We ensure bias–free 
evaluation through moderation 
committees and offer training for 
managers to provide constructive, 
growth–focused feedback.
Through RetrACE employees are 
able to revisit their performance 
journey and raise concerns about their 
performance for the year. 
These are reviewed by an independent 
Apex Committee comprising 
senior leadership.
Competitive Compensation & 
Benchmarking 
We partner with Aon Consulting Pvt. 
Ltd. to benchmark salaries against 
industry standards. Our performance–
linked incentive structures reward 
high performers, and we remain 
committed to equal pay for equal 
work, eliminating gender pay gaps.
CEO Compensation
CEO compensation for the Bank’s MD 
& CEO is in line with the guidelines 
stated in the RBI circular dated 
November 4, 2019. The Bank uses 
a Balanced Scorecard approach to 
assess the CEO’s performance. The 
scorecard contains KPIS for the MD & 
CEO under a range of areas, including 
financial performance, internal 
processes, compliance, people, 
execution, and performance 
of subsidiaries.
The MD & CEO’s variable pay 
consists of a performance bonus 
and stock–linked incentive. 
The variable pay is governed 
by regulatory guidelines, which 
include deferral arrangements.
While part of the performance 
bonus is deferred over the 
subsequent three performance 
periods, the stock–linked incentive 
vests over 48 months from the 
date of the grant. The entire 
variable pay is subject to Malus/
Clawback clauses as per the 
Bank’s policy.
teamwork
ownership
transparency
ethics
customer 
centricity
141

Har raah dil se open
Embedding Sustainability, Ethics, Integrity & ESG
Our people are at the heart of our 
commitment to ethical banking and 
responsible growth. By integrating 
sustainability, ethics, integrity, and ESG 
principles into our HR practices, we 
empower employees to drive positive 
impact within and beyond the Bank.
We embed equity, inclusion, and 
responsible leadership across all HR 
strategies—ensuring bias–free hiring, 
fair pay, transparent compensation, and 
upskilling for ESG–aligned careers. 
Ethics is non–negotiable at the Bank. 
We uphold fair labour practices with 
zero tolerance for discrimination. 
Through robust whistleblower policies 
and ethical leadership training, we 
reinforce a culture where integrity and 
accountability guide every decision.
The Bank has implemented a policy 
to prevent sexual harassment of 
women at the workplace and is fully 
compliant with the Internal Committee 
requirements under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013. A Central Internal Committee 
(CIC) has been instituted for the 
redressal of complaints and to prevent 
sexual harassment. Additionally, four 
Regional Internal Committees (RIC) 
have been constituted to facilitate 
investigations at the four regions (north, 
south, east and west) of the Bank and 
take appropriate action as per the 
said policy.
Whistleblower Policy & Vigil 
Mechanism
The Whistleblower channel provides  
a secure way for employees to escalate 
concerns regarding any  
non–compliance/violations in the 
Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics, 
which includes non–adherence to laid 
down guidelines of the Bank, conflict 
of interest, fraud, misuse of delegated 
powers, misappropriation, any form of 
corruption, data leakage, etc. 
To ensure smooth flow and 
management of complaints under 
the policy, a web–based application 
‘https://whistleblower.axisbank.
co.in/index.php/portalComplaints/
index’ is available for filing protected 
disclosures, including anonymous 
whistleblower complaints containing 
specific and verifiable information, 
without fear of revelation of identity. 
The policy contains provisions for 
protecting whistleblowers from 
any unfair action prejudicial to 
their interests.
673   
Total whistleblower complaints 
received by the Bank in fiscal 2025
8
Complaints pending at the 
start of the fiscal year
54
Complaints of sexual 
harassment filed during the 
fiscal year
50   
Complaints disposed off 
during the fiscal year
12   
Complaints pending as on 
the end of the fiscal year 
33   
Workshops/awareness 
programs conducted against 
sexual harassment
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
142

For employees
OGs, our long service recognition program, honours enduring commitment 
and shared growth. This year, we celebrated 51 employees marking 25 years 
and above of service at a special luncheon with senior leadership. Additionally, 
7,000+ employees were recognised for reaching other tenure–based milestones.
Celebrating Excellence across Axis
We foster a culture of recognition and appreciation through a myriad of initiatives, celebrating achievements at 
every stage of the employee journey at the Bank. During fiscal 2025, we felicitated 11,000+ employees under 
various recognition programs.
In fiscal 2025, we launched 
Ahead of the Curve, to 
honour people managers 
who champion open 
communication, empower 
teams and nurture careers 
recognising 595 leaders.
We also celebrated the 
journeys of 20 retiring 
employees through  
Retiring with Pride, 
our program that 
honours dedication  
and lasting impact.
Champions Awards, our flagship recognition program, 
celebrates employees who exemplify our core values. 
This year, from over 24,000 inspiring stories, 86 
winners were honoured by the Board, MD & CEO, 
and senior leaders at a gala awards night. Through our 
quarterly Anchors initiative, we celebrate everyday 
excellence—whether it’s going beyond the call of 
duty, cross–team collaboration, early–career impact 
or mitigating risks. A total of 3,183 employees were 
recognised under this program.
143

Har raah dil se open
Reimagining Possibilities 
through Technology
The Bank continues its transformation 
journey to offer seamless and 
intuitive self–service experiences, 
simplifying processes for employees, 
managers, and HR professionals as 
the technology landscape around 
us evolves.
Over the past year, we have enhanced 
our systems to achieve Silent HR, 
improve operational efficiency, and 
strengthen controls and governance 
in key areas. End–to–end process 
journeys have been automated to 
ensure STP is up from 60% to 80% 
in fiscal 2025 (Straight through 
processing, such as laptop allocation 
on Day 1). 
A key milestone this year was the 
launch of the Open Learning Lab—
our new, unified learning platform. 
Replacing the previous LMS, 
it empowers employees to self–enrol 
in tailored courses aligned to their 
growth. Within three months, 97% of 
employees actively engaged with the 
platform, reflecting its intuitive design 
and impact.
The ‘One Axis’ App successfully 
delivers unified experience to 
employees across the bank and 
subsidiaries. It hosts all significant 
employee and manager self–service 
journeys, allowing ease of access for 
daily transactions such as attendance, 
leave management, travel, query 
resolutions etc. Adi, our virtual 
assistant on the app is a cutting–edge 
Gen AI–powered assistant to manage 
HR related employee queries with 
precise, first–time right responses 
and solutions. 
To streamline people analytics, we 
launched the Employee Data Lake–
centralising employee data across the 
lifecycle. It addresses fragmented HR 
systems, enabling insights into org 
structure, headcount, attrition, and 
performance. Backed by a unified 
framework, it enhances productivity 
and supports data–driven decisions 
across the Bank. As we continue to 
innovate and integrate advanced 
technologies, we remain committed 
to empowering our employees, 
optimising productivity, and ensuring 
sustainable growth for Axis Bank. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
144

Affirming our Position as an Employer of Choice
In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank reaffirmed 
its position as an employer of choice 
through multiple recognitions that 
underscore our dedication to building 
a future–ready and people–first 
organisation. We are proud to be 
certified once again as a Great Place 
to Work, a testament to our enduring 
focus on fostering a culture of trust, 
inclusivity, and continuous learning.
Our future–focused approach was 
further acknowledged by Fortune 
India, where we were ranked among 
the Top 5 Future–Ready Workplaces. 
This recognition highlights our 
efforts to create an agile organisation 
equipped to thrive in a dynamic 
environment, powered by innovation 
and a skilled, resilient workforce.
We also received the BT–KPMG 
Award for Best Talent and Workforce 
in Banks in India, which reflects our 
robust talent management strategies 
and commitment to attracting, 
nurturing, and retaining high–potential 
talent. This recognition reinforces our 
belief that investing in people is key to 
sustainable growth.
In addition, we were honoured with 
the Jombay – WOW Workplace Award 
2025, which celebrates organisations 
that excel in creating meaningful 
employee experiences and cultivating 
leadership at all levels. This award 
further validates our employee–first 
philosophy and the impact of our 
progressive HR practices.
For employees
145

India is undergoing a structural shift 
powered by digital adoption, revival 
in manufacturing, and the rise of 
Bharat and self–reliant enterprises. 
Amid a volatile global landscape, the 
surge in consumption, increasing 
affluence, the growing momentum 
among MSMEs, and the growth 
of sustainable financing, present 
long–term prospects for the banking 
sector. The Bank is well–positioned 
to capitalise on these opportunities 
by integrating its strong physical 
presence with digital innovation, 
broadening access, supporting 
emerging sectors, and creating 
sustained value for investors while 
contributing meaningfully to India’s 
inclusive development.
FOR INVESTORS
Sustainable wealth creation 
for shareholders
India stands at the cusp 
of a new economic 
era, driven by digital 
acceleration, inclusive 
growth, and rising 
aspirations. Aligned with 
this momentum, Axis 
Bank remains open to 
possibilities and poised to 
lead. With a clear strategic 
focus and a strong 
commitment to nation–
building, we leverage 
India’s growth trajectory 
to deliver long–term value 
for our investors.
Har raah dil se open
Financial Performance 
The Bank has undergone a 
significant transformation under 
the GPS (Growth, Profitability and 
Sustainability) strategy launched in 
2019. Through unwavering execution 
and strategic investments in our 
people, processes, technology, and 
transformative initiatives, the Bank 
has emerged stronger, more resilient, 
and fully equipped for the future. 
We have not only exceeded our GPS 
commitments but have also firmly 
positioned ourselves as an  
all–weather institution.
Material Issues Linkage
M2
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
S5
M15
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
146

In addition to its traditional strengths, the Bank continues to lead India’s digital payments ecosystem. Our dominant market 
presence across the Unified Payment Interface (UPI), National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT) and Immediate Payment 
Service (IMPS) platforms highlights our ability to drive innovation and scale in an increasingly digital economy. The Bank also 
remains a top player in merchant acquisition and credit cards, reinforcing our customer–centric growth approach.
Improvements in Key Financial and Operational Metrics since fiscal 2019
(1) CAGR during fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2019 period (2) CAGR for the fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2025 period (3) Common Equity Tier – 1 (4) Excluding technical write–offs
For investors
Digital Payments Leadership 
33%
Market share in UPI  
Payer PSP
30%
Market share in NEFT 
volume payments
23%
Market share in  
IMPS volume
~20%
Terminal market share 
in merchant acquiring business
Credit Cards
India’s 4th largest player with  
a 14% market share
Lifted the growth 
momentum
Improved  
profitability  
considerably
Strengthened 
the Bank 
significantly
Advances Market Share
Consolidated ROA
CET 1(3)
Deposits Market Share
Consolidated ROE
PCR (4)
Operating Revenue Growth
NIM
Net NPA
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2019
Fiscal 
2019
Fiscal 
2019
8%(1)
3.43%
 2.06%
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2019
4.9%
5.4%
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2019
Fiscal 
2019
0.66%
11.27%
1.77%
14.67%
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2019
4.3%
5.0%
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2025
Fiscal 
2019
Fiscal 
2019
8.58%
62%
16.89%
75%
16%(2)
3.98%
0.33%
147

Pillars of a Resilient Portfolio
72%
Retail loan book is secured
RAROC as the core driver for 
capital deployment and liquidity 
planning across portfolios
Proactive portfolio monitoring 
using early warning triggers and 
policy recalibration
Cautious stance on retail 
unsecured portfolio (personal loans 
& credit cards) with tech–enabled 
collections and risk analytics
Tailored strategy for retail 
secured portfolio based on 
varied risk–return profiles
Har raah dil se open
Capital Allocation &  
Risk–adjusted Returns
Our portfolio strategy is grounded in 
a disciplined focus on Risk–Adjusted 
Return on Capital (RAROC), ensuring 
capital efficiency and sustainable 
growth. This approach enables us to 
make informed decisions on capital 
and liquidity deployment, guided 
by three key pillars: Optimal yield 
placement, Return potential, and 
Predictive loss management.
We remain careful and selective 
in the retail unsecured segment, 
particularly personal loans and 
credit cards. Growth in this segment 
is driven by a balanced RAROC–
led approach underpinned by 
advanced digital and data analytics 
capabilities. Simultaneously, we 
continue to strengthen our collections 
infrastructure with front–end tech 
enablement to enhance efficiency 
and outcomes.
The retail secured portfolio’s growth 
is tailored to meet our RAROC 
benchmarks. For example, our 
mortgage portfolio, including home 
loans, Loans Against Property (LAP), 
and affordable housing, exhibits 
a diverse risk–return profile. In 
the current deposit–constrained 
environment, we have adopted a 
strategic lens to optimise growth 
within these three mortgage 
product segments.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
148

ESG is a core pillar of the Bank’s 
long–term strategy, rooted in our 
Purpose Statement: ‘Banking that 
leads to a more inclusive and equitable 
economy, thriving community and a 
healthier planet’. We have significantly 
scaled up ESG integration across 
business operations — embedding 
environmental responsibility, social 
equity, and sound governance into 
decision–making processes. 
This includes a strong focus on 
building an inclusive workforce, 
creating a future–ready workplace, 
advancing sustainable finance, 
and strengthening our governance 
frameworks to drive long–term value 
creation for all stakeholders.
Our Bank was the first Indian bank to 
establish a dedicated ESG Committee 
of the Board in 2021, reinforcing 
strategic oversight and ESG 
governance. We remain committed to 
support India’s transition to a  
low–carbon, inclusive economy in  
line with the United Nations  
Sustainable Development Goals  
(UN SDGs) and the Paris Agreement. 
We have committed to increase the 
share of electric vehicle financing in 
the overall two–wheeler and four–
wheeler retail loan portfolio and scale 
down our exposure to two highly 
carbon–intensive sectors, coal and 
thermal power.
ESG commitments taken by the Bank
Read more pg. 19
For investors
We continue to be considered among 
the sector leaders in sustainable 
financing, having raised marquee 
issuances since 2016, when we 
launched India’s first certified dollar 
green bond. 
Under the Committee’s oversight, 
the Bank continues to focus on 
strengthening its ESG and  
climate–related risk management 
capabilities from the enterprise to 
portfolio to project level. In 2022, the 
Bank had reached its first milestone of 
embedding ESG and climate–related 
risks and opportunities into its annual 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP). Additionally, we have 
developed climate risk dashboards 
covering physical and transition risks 
in key portfolios and continue focusing 
on pertinent training and capacity 
building for the Bank. 
ESG & Sustainable Investing
We have further strengthened 
our ESG Policy for Lending, which 
integrates environmental and social 
risk assessment into its credit appraisal 
for Wholesale Banking. Managed by 
a team of environmental and social 
risk professionals, the updated policy 
mandates deeper scrutiny of proposals 
in hazardous sectors or with high 
climate–related risks, such as coal 
mining, thermal power, and hazardous 
chemicals. Notably, key proposals 
discussed at the Board’s Committee of 
Directors now include its environment 
and social risk assessment.
149

Shareholder Engagement Initiatives
Shareholders are key growth capital 
providers for any Bank and play a 
critical role in supporting the Bank’s 
growth and strategic direction. We 
view them as long–term partners 
and ensure continuous engagement 
through structured, transparent, and 
timely communication. 
Our interactions include one–on–one 
and group meetings in physical and 
virtual formats, such as:
	»
Post–quarterly earnings calls, 
Annual General Meeting and 
analysts’ meet
	»
Conferences and non–deal 
roadshows (both domestic  
and international)  
Effective shareholder engagement is 
crucial to achieving a fair valuation  
and maintaining market trust.  
Open, two–way communication 
with shareholders ensures clarity 
on our strategy and performance, 
supports informed price discovery, 
and strengthens long–term 
investor confidence.
Long–term Focus
Value Creation
The Bank remains focused on creating 
long–term shareholder value by 
harnessing multiplicative forces by 
unifying ‘One Axis’, forging strategic 
partnerships, and leveraging  
new–age technology to drive business 
performance. Over the past six years, 
the Bank has delivered a marked 
improvement in return metrics, 
strengthened its balance sheet as well 
as its self–sustaining capital structure.
The Bank’s capital raise in fiscal 2021 
significantly boosted its CET–1 ratio, 
providing a substantial buffer. Even 
after absorbing the impact of the 
Citibank acquisition in fiscal 2023, 
the Bank has successfully restored 
its capital position as of March 
31, 2025. This robust capital base 
supports growth, enables effective risk 
management, and ensures sustainable 
profitability, translating into long–term 
value creation for shareholders.
Har raah dil se open
Governance & Transparency
The Bank’s Fair Disclosure Code 
provides a clear framework to ensure 
timely, transparent, and equitable 
disclosure of any Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (UPSI) that could 
impact the market value of the Bank’s 
securities. In accordance with regulatory 
requirements, the Bank ensures that such 
information is first disseminated through 
stock exchanges, followed by other 
public platforms to provide universal and 
non–selective access.
The Bank consistently shares key 
updates, including financial results, 
corporate announcements, and material 
developments, in line with the regulatory 
guidelines under the Fair Disclosure 
Code. These disclosures enable investors 
and market participants to make 
informed decisions. The detailed policy, 
titled ‘Code of Practices and Procedure 
for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information’, is available on the 
Bank’s website.
Some of the disclosures available on the 
Bank’s website include:
	»
Quarterly earnings investor 
presentation, earnings press release 
and financial results
	»
Earnings call transcripts and audio/
video recordings
	»
Investor presentations for road shows, 
conferences and specific events
	»
Investor presentations on specific 
businesses or subsidiaries of the Bank
The audio/video recording link and 
transcript of quarterly earnings calls 
are submitted to stock exchanges 
in accordance with the existing 
guidelines outlined in the SEBI LODR 
Regulations, 2015.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
150

Bondholders are also an integral 
part of debt capital providers for 
Banks. They provide an alternative 
to non–equity and non–deposit 
funding options. The bond market 
helps Banks to raise specific duration–
based instruments and subordinated 
debt capital, which qualifies for Tier 
II capital. During the fiscal 2025, 
For investors
CET–1 Ratio (Capital Structure)
Leadership Commitment to  
Investors
The Bank aims to lead among its peers 
by growing market share in Bharat 
Banking, MSME, Mid–corporate, 
and Digital Banking while building 
one of the India’s most premium 
Retail Banking franchise. Despite 
global headwinds, our investments 
in technology, data analytics, and 
digital capabilities have significantly 
strengthened our competitive position 
over the past six years.
Our mobile banking app ranks among 
the highest globally, underscoring our 
digital–first strategy and leadership in 
seamless, customer–centric payment 
	»
Maintained 2nd rank under NPS 
for the second year in a row 
(Ranked by Kantar Survey)
	»
MD & CEO named ‘Banker 
of the Year’ by The 
Financial Express
	»
BT–KPMG Best Bank Award  
in the Talent & Workforce  
category
HIGHLIGHTS
solutions. Our customer–centric 
philosophy is embodied in ‘Sparsh’ — a 
program designed to simplify customer 
interactions, drive Net Promoter 
Score (NPS), and boost automation 
and digitalisation. This has resulted in 
improved customer satisfaction and 
increased engagement.
Our current position of strength is the 
result of consistent execution rigour 
and investments made in building 
blocks across our people, processes, 
technology, and several multiplicative 
projects over the past six years.  
The Bank continues to be differentiated 
and distinctive in our journey towards 
building an all–weather institution.
Bank has issued debt instruments 
amounting to ₹3,925 crores in the 
form of long–term bonds against 
infrastructure and affordable housing 
in India. Furthermore, Subordinated 
Debt amounting to ₹850 crores and 
Infrastructure Bonds totalling ₹5,705 
crores matured during this period.
Peaked 15.40% in fiscal 2021
Absorbed 191 bps fiscal 2023 
for acquisition of CitiBank 
India consumer business
Restored to 14.67% in fiscal 2025
Shareholder Wealth Creation
The Bank has consistently delivered strong returns, outperforming broader indices over the medium term, reflecting its strategic 
focus on sustainable growth and value creation. Complementing this is the Dividend Distribution Policy, which rewards investors 
while ensuring sufficient capital is retained for future expansion. In alignment with regulatory guidelines, the policy targets a 
minimum dividend payout of 25% of the equity share’s face value from the net profit earned during the year, thus maintaining a 
balance between income distribution and reinvestment–led growth. 
CAGR Returns (Axis Bank vs. Indices) as of March 31, 2025
Axis Bank
5 year
3 year
1 year
5%
  13%
24%
Nifty 50
5 year
3 year
1 year
5%
  10%
22%
Bank Nifty
5 year
3 year
1 year
9%
  12%
22%
Read more about our Dividend Distribution Policy :  
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default-source/quarterly-reports/dividend-distribution-policy-of-the-bank.pdf
151

FOR COMMUNITIES
Together for an  
inclusive future 
Empowering communities 
is at the core of our 
purpose. We champion 
collective progress through 
the promotion of quality 
education, sustainable 
livelihoods, access to 
healthcare, environmental 
stewardship, and financial 
inclusion. We remain 
passionately committed 
to creating resilient 
communities, unlocking 
human potential, and 
shaping a more equitable 
and inclusive India.
Material Issues Linkage
M9
M10
A strong institutional framework 
governs our CSR programs, which are 
overseen by the CSR Committee of 
the Board and aligned with Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013. We 
also draw inspiration from the United 
Nations’ Sustainable Development 
Goals, ensuring our work contributes 
to broader global development 
objectives. In fiscal 2025, our 
initiatives spanned geographies and 
themes – from border villages to 
urban slums, from natural resource 
management to cancer care, from 
grassroots sports to academic 
research. Behind every milestone 
lies a story of collaboration, courage, 
and change.
Financial Literacy 
& Inclusion 
Empowering citizens 
with the knowledge 
and tools to 
participate in India’s 
financial system
Lives and Livelihoods
Creating income  
security 
through sustainable,  
community–
owned ecosystems
Other Focus 
Areas: Environmental 
Sustainability, Humanitarian & 
Relief, Healthcare and Sports
A comprehensive 
approach to wellbeing 
and community  
resilience
Education
Transforming 
access and quality 
of primary and 
higher education 
across India
An Integrated Approach to CSR
Har raah dil se open
Our Core 
Focus 
Areas
S5
Capital Impacted
SDGs Impacted
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
152

The Sustainable 
Livelihood Program 
Lives and livelihoods in rural India 
are deeply intertwined with natural 
ecosystems – land, water, and forests. 
It forms the bedrock of wellbeing 
for millions of our citizens. Shrinking 
landholdings, water insecurity, dated 
practices, and weak market linkages 
strain rural incomes, particularly for 
those that have to rely on a single 
source of income.  
Launched in 2011, our flagship initiative 
– The Sustainable Livelihood Program 
(SLP) addresses these challenges by 
creating diverse sources of income 
and fostering reliance in several ways 
to ensure longer term economic 
and ecological sustainability.  SLP 
prioritises support to small and marginal 
farmers, landless families, artisans, 
entrepreneurs, especially youth and 
People with Disabilities (PWDs). 
2.05 million
Rural families across 
23,000+ villages, across 32 
States/Union Territories 
positively impacted 
(cumulatively) as of  
March 31, 2025.
This includes:
	» 1.95 million rural families
	» 92,794 youth trained in 
vocational skills which 
included 25,045 PWDs.
Implemented by Axis Bank Foundation 
in partnership with grassroots NGOs 
and community institutions, SLP is 
designed to strengthen livelihoods 
through a multi-dimensional approach 
fostering a basket of livelihood 
opportunities. Multiple sources of 
income are promoted and stabilised 
by improving skills, introducing 
better farming methods, promotion 
of horticulture, livestock rearing, 
developing micro enterprises, enabling 
access to finance and direct market 
connects. The underlying ecological 
challenges are addressed through 
active community ownership and 
participation in local governance.
Diversified income sources lead 
to more stable cash flows through 
the year. To an extent, local stable 
incomes reduce distress migration. 
To enhance overall wellbeing SLP 
focusses on improving health and 
nutrition for rural families. The health 
and nutrition focus of the program 
adopts a life cycle approach. It works 
with lactating mothers, young children 
and adolescents, guiding and nudging 
them to improve their health seeking 
behaviour and foster linkages with 
the public health systems. Improved 
health not only helps in reducing wage, 
but it also enhances the quality of life.
This integrated approach is helping 
rural communities to become more 
self–reliant, ecologically aware, and 
economically secure. SLP addresses 
local and contextual vulnerability 
into opportunity, ensuring that when 
livelihoods are secured, families 
and communities can thrive with 
confidence and dignity.
153
For communities

Award & Recognition
The Sustainable Livelihood Program won the first prize at FICCI’s 
Sustainable Agriculture Awards 2024 for the work on Natural 
Resource Management and Climate Resilient Agriculture in Jharkhand, 
Telangana and Maharashtra that enhanced the ability of communities 
to generate income by building resilient livelihoods. 
2011 – 2018 | Mission1Million:  
Building the Foundation
The journey began with a vision 
to support  
1 million individuals through 
improved access to water, 
enhanced agricultural productivity 
opportunities. It expanded farm and 
non–farm livelihood options, including 
horticulture, agroforestry, floriculture 
and livestock, These efforts engaged 
multiple family members and created 
year–round income that helped 
families meet essential needs – food, 
education and medical expenses – 
with dignity.
Key highlights: 
A strong foundation and funding 
approach emerged to support 
livelihoods in rural India
2019–2025 | Mission2Million:  
Deepening and Scaling Impact
Mission 2 Million, completed in 2025, 
has supported 2 Million rural families 
by scaling targeted interventions 
through a comprehensive approach 
that used philanthropic capital as a 
catalyst to strengthen livelihoods 
through models that are led and 
owned by communities themselves.
Key Highlights:
	»
Diverse income streams have 
strengthened food and nutrition 
security while reducing the need 
for distress migration 
	»
Communities now demonstrate 
greater self–reliance, decision 
making power, and access to skills 
and information
	»
Major thrust areas:
	
−Community led collectives,  
farmer producer groups and  
agri-entrepreneurs
	
−Watershed management, solar 
powered irrigation, livestock 
and Non–Timber Forest 
Produce  
(NTFP) value chains
	
−Enterprise development 
training for youth, artisans, and 
people with disabilities 
	
−Healthcare and nutrition 
as enablers of economic 
participation
	
−Geographic expansion across 
coastal, central, Himalayan and 
Northeastern belts 
2025–2031 | Mission4Million: 
Expanding the Sphere of Influence
Looking ahead, Mission 4 Million 
will support an additional 2 million 
rural families, with a sharper 
focus on inclusive growth and 
climate resilience. 
The program will expand to:
	»
Enable higher–income 
rural opportunities across 
crafts, fisheries, livestock, 
microenterprises and 
tribal economies.
	»
Promote climate–conscious 
livelihood models backed by 
innovative financing 
	»
Invest in capacity building, 
local leadership and long–term 
community ownership
	»
Deepen efforts in healthcare 
access, skilling and 
economic inclusion for the 
most marginalised. 
Every milestone reaffirms a 
simple truth: when rural families 
are empowered to shape their 
development goals.
Phases of the Sustainable Livelihood Program
387,467
Households have been positively 
impacted, of which
	»
372,881 were rural families
	»
14,586 youth trained in vocational 
skills, including 3,750 PWDs 
FISCAL 2025 HIGHLIGHTS
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
154
Har raah dil se open

People
Ravindra Mallesh, a hardworking 
farmer, dedicated long hours 
to his land. His wife shared his 
burden, spending endless days 
watering fields by hand. Their 
young son, instead of focusing on 
his education, was often pulled into 
farm labour. The entire family felt 
the strain—physically, financially, 
and emotionally.
Case Study
Progress
The introduction of sprinkler 
irrigation brought significant changes 
for Ravindra and his family. The 
system ensured uniform water 
distribution, reduced soil erosion, 
and improved crop health. It also 
cut labour and input costs, allowing 
the couple to pursue other income 
sources and enabling their son to 
return to school. The result was a 
more stable and productive farm.
Highlighting 
the Impact of 
the Sustainable 
Livelihood 
Program
Blending Tradition with 
Technology: How Innovation 
Revitalised Farming for a family 
in Telangana
When technology meets traditional 
agricultural practices, it creates 
a powerful blend of wisdom and 
innovation. In India, many farming 
communities rely on techniques that 
have been passed down through 
generations. However, with climate 
change, increasing water demand, 
and declining water availability, 
these challenges have become 
more complex.
In Dhamargidda, a district in 
Telangana, farmers faced these 
struggles firsthand. One such 
farmer, Ravindra Mallesh (name 
changed to protect privacy), 
relied on traditional irrigation 
for his red soil land. His method 
required intensive manual labour, 
exhausting both him and his wife.
Pathway
The Sustainable Livelihood Program 
played a crucial role in enabling 
this transformation. Through 
its initiatives, Ravindra received 
training in modern irrigation 
practices, along with access to 
subsidies and technical support. 
Continuous guidance helped him 
transition smoothly and maintain 
the system effectively. The ongoing 
training and constant learning 
initiatives under the program 
ensured that farmers could address 
any operational challenges and 
maximise the benefits of their new 
irrigation systems.
The adoption of efficient irrigation 
not only improved Ravindra’s crop 
yields and financial stability but 
also enhanced his family’s overall 
wellbeing. Ravindra’s story is a 
clear example of how integrating 
simple technology with traditional 
farming, supported by the right 
proper training and resources, can 
transform livelihoods and build 
resilient rural communities.
155
For communities

Education–Learning  
for Life 
We view education as a right and a 
pathway to opportunity, dignity, and 
empowerment, especially for those 
in India’s remotest and underserved 
regions. Our education initiatives 
focus on inclusive, equitable, 
and quality learning, supporting 
foundational education in remote 
border villages to cutting–edge 
research and innovation in higher 
academic institutions.
7,400+
Schools reached
60,000+
Teachers reached across 
multiple States through 
various programs 
150+
Schools in 4 Northeastern 
States where Bank is present
7,70,000+
Children benefitted 
FISCAL 2025 HIGHLIGHTS
Axis DilSe® – Taking Education  
to the Last Mile 
Launched in 2017, Axis DilSe® is 
our flagship program committed to 
transforming education in some of 
India’s most remote and underserved 
regions. What began with supporting 
over 100 government schools in 
Ladakh has grown into a nationwide 
initiative reaching the borderlands of 
the Northeast and the deep interiors 
of central and eastern India. Rooted 
in our dil se open philosophy, the 
program collaborates with grassroots 
organisations to strengthen school 
infrastructure, empower teachers, and 
enhance learning outcomes. Through 
Axis DilSe®, we aim to make quality 
education accessible and meaningful 
for children living in isolated and often 
challenging geographies.
Axis DilSe® Centre of Excellence 
in partnership with Assam Rifles 
and NIEDO
The Bank collaborates with Assam 
Rifles and the National Integrity 
and Educational Development 
Organisation (NIEDO) to support 
underprivileged students in Northeast 
India with specialised residential 
training for competitive exams like 
NEET and JEE. Locations include 
Chiswema, Ukhrul, Jairampur, 
Zokhawasar, Teliamura, and Ghaspani.
Axis DilSe® Odapada Block 
Transformation Program in partnership 
with Tata Steel Foundation
The Bank collaborates with the Tata Steel 
Foundation for a block transformation 
program initiated in the Odapada block 
of Dhenkanal district, Odisha. The 
objective is to bring back all out–of–
school children in the block into the 
education system. Additionally, the 
program aims to provide foundational 
literacy and learning enhancement 
programs to school–going children and 
raise awareness among youth, SHGs and 
the community on the sustainability of 
the interventions.
	»
439 out–of–school children 
were enrolled in schools 
under the program
	»
10,700+ students are reached 
through learning initiatives  
in the block
Milestones Achieved
Axis DilSe® in Manipur in partnership 
with Sunbird Trust
The Bank has partnered with Sunbird 
Trust to provide quality education to 
underprivileged tribal students and 
expand school infrastructure at Ivzon 
Friendship School in Churachandpur 
district, Manipur. Amidst the civil 
unrest in Manipur, the Bank supported 
relief camps run by our partner for 
those displaced due to the strife. 
	»
425 students are enrolled in 
the school.
	»
Lyzon Friendship School 
was provisionally recognised 
for Class 10 by the Board 
of Secondary Education, 
Manipur – the only private 
school to get this status in the 
entire district.
Milestones Achieved
Axis DilSe® in Sikkim in partnership 
with 17,000 ft Foundation
The Bank is supporting 50 government 
primary schools across Sikkim to 
enhance their learning infrastructure 
and resources with the help of the  
17,000 ft Foundation.
	»
2,100+ children benefitted 
across 50 schools
	»
Digi–Lab, library, and 
playground provided
	»
Centralised training for all 
headmasters conducted
Milestones Achieved
Axis Bank Centre for Mathematics 
& Computing at Indian Institute of 
Science (IISC) Bangalore
The Axis Bank Centre for Mathematics 
& Computing at the Indian Institute 
of Science, Bangalore is a flagship 
initiative to strengthen India’s higher 
education and research ecosystem. 
Construction of a dedicated six-story 
building is in progress. In addition, 
the centre supported 600+ students 
and 8 professors through its various 
activities. Centre output included 26 
conference papers and 54 journal 
publications in fiscal 2025.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
156
Har raah dil se open

Financial exclusion in India is largely 
a result of the lack of access to and 
awareness about formal financing 
channels. Our community–led 
programs combine local knowledge, 
on–ground partnerships, and 
structured training to inform and 
educate communities about financial 
services – from savings and credit 
to insurance and pensions. Through 
grassroots training in digital banking, 
savings, insurance, and pension 
schemes, as well as knowledge 
building, we help individuals set 
financial goals, manage budgets, and 
build economic resilience.
SCRIPT: A Holistic Financial 
Education Model
In partnership with the Kalanjiam 
Foundation, we have rolled out the 
SCRIPT model — Savings, Credit, 
Remittances/Payments, Investments/
Insurance, Pension/Transactions 
(including digital banking). 
Our Approach to Strengthening the Education Ecosystem
School and Teacher Transformation
	»
Launched a School Transformation 
Program in Shi Yomi, Arunachal 
Pradesh, and established a Teacher 
Training Academy in partnership 
with Sunbird Trust
	»
Scaled Block Transformation 
Program to 6 new blocks in Odisha 
and Jharkhand in collaboration 
with the Tata Steel Foundation, 
facilitating learning for over 
35,000 students
	»
Collaborated with Mantra Social 
Services to improve educational 
outcomes by catalyzing collective 
action in five districts across 
Chhattisgarh, Odisha and 
Jharkhand, driving systemic 
improvements in the education 
sector. Reaching over 6,600+ 
children and 4000+ schools
Systemic Capacity Building
	»
Developed teacher competencies 
in Kendriya Vidyalaya and state 
schools in collaboration with Sri 
Aurobindo Society, aligning with 
the National Education Policy 
(NEP) 2020
	»
Partnered with Khan Academy 
India to introduce tech–enabled 
Maths and Science learning in 
Odisha, reaching over 90,000 
students and over 4,000 teachers 
in government schools
Higher Education & Innovation
	»
Expanded partnership with 
Plaksha University to construct 
a FutureTech building, institute 
a faculty chair, and support PhD 
and postdoctoral fellowships, thus 
nurturing India’s future innovators 
and researchers
	»
In partnership with Ashoka University, 
over 50 women students enrolled 
in STEM disciplines were awarded 
scholarship. Additionally, the Bank 
supported 25 innovative research 
projects led by faculties, spanning 
both applied and fundamental 
research domains
CM Rise Teacher Professional 
Development Program
	»
In collaboration with Peepul, the 
Bank is supporting the CM Rise 
Teacher Professional Development 
Program in Madhya Pradesh. 
Covering all 52 districts, the 
program is designed to train over 
1.2 lakh teachers by 2028.
This multi–module program has 
helped beneficiaries:
	»
Set and track financial goals
	»
Understand safe borrowing and 
savings practices
	»
Access government welfare 
schemes and digital tools
The initiative aims to empower  
7 lakh individuals with nuances of 
financial literacy and eventually ensure 
their inclusion in the formal financial 
ecosystem. Since fiscal 2024, the 
Bank has engaged with ~3.2 lakhs 
participants across 50 blocks, 14 
districts and 5 States driving greater 
financial awareness and inclusion.
Chair for Financial Inclusion at IRMA
We have established the Axis Bank 
Chair on Financial Inclusion at the 
Institute of Rural Management Anand 
to drive research and influence public 
policy on financial inclusion. 
This initiative supports:
	»
Field–based research and publications
	»
Workshops and academic dialogue 
on national and global platforms
	»
Evidence–based recommendations 
for inclusive financial policies
Financial Literacy & Inclusion
1.25 lakhs+
Women empowered 
through financial literacy 
sessions 
14
Districts in 5 states covered 
for awareness building
FISCAL 2025 HIGHLIGHTS
157
For communities

Other Focus Areas
Our community–centric efforts span multiple social and environmental impact dimensions – from protecting nature and 
providing accessible healthcare to ensuring rapid humanitarian responses and fostering talent through sports. Each of 
these initiatives resonates deeply with our philosophy of ‘Har raah dil se open’, which translates to inclusive action for 
holistic community development.
Environmental Sustainability – Nurturing a Greener Tomorrow
Recognising the critical role of the environment in supporting 
livelihoods and enhancing quality of life, the Bank is deeply 
committed to ecological conservation and climate resilience. 
Our flagship Mission 2 Million Trees aims to create a substantial 
green cover across India by 2027. As of March 2025, the 
bank through its CSR partners has planted ~3.27 million trees 
(including the 2 million target and other plantations, combined). 
The Bank is further expanding its activities related to habitat 
restoration. As part of this initiative, the Bank has set a target 
of planting ~8 million trees by 2030 (including all earlier 
plantations).
Our ambitious projects include the restoration of critical 
mangrove habitats in Tamil Nadu, extensive agroforestry and 
forest regeneration programs in Assam and Madhya Pradesh, as 
well as initiatives aimed at mitigating human–wildlife conflicts 
in Karnataka. In addition, the Miyawaki Urban Forest in Navi 
Mumbai is a vibrant example of integrating biodiversity within 
cityscapes, enhancing both ecological health and the wellbeing 
of local communities. These collective efforts form part of our 
overarching ESG commitments, aligning closely with national 
climate goals.
Healthcare & Nutrition – Strengthening Access, Improving Lives
Good health is foundational to thriving communities. Acknowledging 
India’s growing healthcare challenges, the Bank has intensified its 
focus on healthcare and nutrition interventions significantly.
Our strategic collaboration with the National Cancer Grid (NCG) 
through the Tata Memorial Centre is transforming cancer care across 
the nation. With an investment of ₹100 crores over five years, this 
partnership aims to establish robust telehealth systems, implement 
cutting–edge Electronic Medical Records (EMRs), create India’s first 
National Tumour Biobank, and provide targeted patient engagement 
solutions. Concurrently, our partnership with the Indian Cancer 
Society emphasises preventive care, offering widespread screening 
camps targeting oral, cervical, and breast cancers, reaching over  
8 lakh individuals.
Additionally, we support the establishment of a pioneering 
Paediatrics Specialty Centre at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) 
in Bengaluru, which will significantly enhance paediatric healthcare 
infrastructure and capabilities for advanced medical research, 
setting new benchmarks for care and scientific discovery.
Humanitarian Relief – Responding Swiftly,  
Restoring Dignity
We recognise our responsibility to respond promptly during 
humanitarian crises. Throughout the year, the Bank actively 
extended support to communities severely impacted by 
natural calamities and socio–political conflicts.
In Assam’s Majuli district, we partnered with Ayang Trust 
and Balipara Foundation to ensure effective relief measures 
following the devastating floods. In response to severe 
ethnic conflicts in Manipur, our alliance with Sunbird Trust 
provided critical relief by providing shelters and essential 
support systems for displaced families. Furthermore, we 
expanded our humanitarian assistance in Karnataka’s 
Kodagu district, contributing to the reconstruction of 
sustainable housing for flood–affected families. Our 
commitment during these times of distress ensures 
immediate relief, coupled with initiatives that foster  
long–term recovery and community rebuilding.
Through our humanitarian relief efforts, we have positively 
impacted 7,278 households.
Sports – Empowering Champions, Inspiring Communities
This year marks the expansion of the Bank’s commitment to 
community upliftment through sports. We see sports as a powerful 
means of community cohesion, character development, and inclusion.
We have partnered with Olympic Gold Quest to empower 224 
promising athletes and para athletes across 10 Olympic and 8 
Paralympic disciplines, supporting them in realising their potential on 
the global stage. In addition, our partnership with the Inspire Institute 
of Sports has led to the launch of the ‘Axis Bank Judo Development 
Program’. The program develops judo talent across India, with a special 
focus on talent in Manipur, considering the state being a judo hot bed 
in India. The program integrated a total of 157 athletes. 104 athletes 
in Manipur were provided with training sessions at the Judo Academy 
in Manipur, in partnership with the Manipur Judo Association (MJA), 
while 53 female judokas were awarded full scholarships to study and 
train at the state–of–the–art IIS campus in Vijayanagar, Karnataka for 
the high–performance program.  
The athletes also received sports science support from the IIS 
Vijayanagar central sports science team. These efforts not only 
foster athletic excellence but also create inspiring role models, driving 
broader community participation and enthusiasm for sports.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
158
Har raah dil se open

Corporate Citizenship Initiatives
Abhisaran 2025
Abhisaran is a multi–stakeholder 
engagement forum where knowledge 
is shared, ideas turn to action and 
partnerships evolve. Abhisaran 2025, 
was hosted over 2 days to celebrate 
the ‘One Axis’ CSR approach and 
to foster collaboration amongst all 
partners. The gathering brought 
together senior bank officials, board 
members of Axis Bank, trustees of 
Axis Bank Foundation (ABF), senior 
officials and Board members of Axis 
Subsidiaries and 70+ NGO partners 
from across India. 
Abhisaran 2025, marked an important 
milestone for the Sustainable 
Livelihood Program(SLP) - successful 
completion of 
Mission2Million and launch of 
Mission4Million. Helmed by Axis Bank 
Foundation, Mission4Million is set to 
expand SLP’s geographical reach to 
support an additional 2 million rural 
households. It would also deepen 
the Bank’s commitment to fostering 
resilience amongst rural communities, 
especially in the wake of changing 
climate and meaningfully empower 
youth by creating opportunities to 
shape their lives and livelihoods.  
The second day had several curated 
sessions. Plenary session on 
Navigating Transition: Pathways 
towards a shared purpose set 
the tone for the day, highlighting 
the opportunities to transit with 
intentional and shared vision. Further, 
sessions on ‘Theory of Change’, and 
‘Effective Communication offered 
opportunity to strengthen the delivery 
of purpose and sessions on Systems 
Thinking for Livelihoods, Value Chains 
for Equity, Health & Nutrition in 
Livelihoods, Rural Entrepreneurship, 
Water Governance and Youth & 
Employability saw partners sharing 
of best practices, challenges and 
opportunities for collaborative action 
at the grassroots. 
Abhisaran 2025 underscored the 
collaborative spirit between Axis Bank, 
Axis Bank Foundation and its diverse 
network of partners. 
Axis Cares 
Axis Cares, our flagship 
employee engagement 
platform to empower Axisians 
and help foster their personal 
social responsibility. Axis Cares 
offers the opportunity to 
contribute financial resources, 
time through volunteering 
towards causes close to 
their hearts. Over the years, 
Axisians have supported 
several causes such as 
education for children, care for 
nature and wildlife, support 
to senior citizens, protecting 
our cultural heritage, promote 
sports and support relief 
work during disasters. They 
have spent time mentoring 
and coaching young aspirants 
preparing to join the formal 
workforce. Axis Cares 
symbolises shared purpose of 
personal social responsibility 
– Dilse
159
For communities

Partnering with the Government
The Bank has consistently been a 
trusted banking partner for India’s 
government sector, contributing 
to the enhancement of public 
finance, driving transparency, 
and enabling seamless citizen 
services nationwide. Key ministries, 
government departments, and public 
institutions, such as the Ministry 
of Urban Development, Housing 
and Urban Affairs, the Office of the 
Controller General of Accounts, 
and the Institute of Government 
Accounts and Finance under the 
Ministry of Finance, have accredited 
the Bank. Recently, we received our 
4th accreditation from the Ministry 
of External Affairs for the Passport 
Seva Program.
Our banking infrastructure 
supports collection for Central 
taxes (Central Board of Direct 
Taxes or CBDT and Goods and 
Services Tax or GST), employee 
welfare contributions (Employees’ 
Provident Fund Organisation 
or EPFO and Employees’ State 
Insurance Corporation or ESIC), and 
State Taxes across 15 States and 
Union Territories. We also serve as 
the sole trustee bank appointed by 
the Pension Fund Regulatory and 
Development Authority (PFRDA) 
for managing the National Pension 
System (NPS).
Ranked among the top performers 
in the Public Financial Management 
System (PFMS) and actively 
contributing to the Government  
e–Marketplace (GeM), we 
consistently deliver robust, secure, 
and citizen–centric digital solutions. 
FOR PARTNERS – GOVERNMENT
Serving the nation 
with pride 
Material Issues Linkage
M9
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Nation–building is both 
a responsibility and 
a privilege. As India 
strides ahead on its 
journey of growth and 
transformation, Axis Bank 
remains a committed 
partner, strengthening 
government ecosystems, 
supporting public 
infrastructure, and 
expanding the reach of 
essential services to every 
corner of the country.
Har raah dil se open
S4
S5
M10
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
160

For partners – Government
Enabling Smart 
Governance and Urban 
Transformation
As a strategic partner to India’s 
ambitious Smart City Mission, 
the Bank collaborates closely 
with Municipal Bodies, City 
Administrations, and State 
Governments to deliver tailored 
banking solutions that meet local 
needs. The Bank maintains strategic 
relationships with over half of 
India’s Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to 
strengthen urban governance. 
Our solutions digitise and streamline 
municipal operations, ensuring 
seamless payment and collection 
processes that enhance transparency 
and civic engagement. We help cities 
become more responsive, sustainable, 
and inclusive by embedding 
digital technology into public 
service delivery. 
We have partnered with 27 Smart 
Cities to implement customised digital 
governance solutions. Some of the few 
associations are the following:
27   
Smart Cities where Axis Bank 
delivers services to assist the 
civic administration
Punjab m–SEWA: Integrated 
digital services platform enabling 
efficient citizen services across 
148 ULBs
Varanasi Nagar Nigam: QR  
code–based doorstep property 
tax solution covering over  
3 lakhs homes
Rewa Municipal Corporation: An 
app–based platform that activates 
digital certifications, handles 
grievances, manages revenue, and 
provides social security services
Varanasi Disaster Management: 
Drone–based aerial solutions to 
strengthen disaster response and 
urban planning
Jharkhand Jal Chajan Yojana: 
A digital door–numbering 
solution, enhancing service 
delivery, responsiveness, and 
community inclusion
161

Transforming Agriculture 
through Digi–culture
We are deeply invested in empowering 
this critical sector through trusted, 
transparent, and tech–driven solutions 
that simplify the lives of farmers 
and agri–value chain stakeholders. 
Our flagship digital platform for e–
procurement enables secure and 
timely payments to farmers against 
government purchases. Designed to 
handle large–scale disbursements 
with precision, the platform offers 
real–time reconciliation, bulk transfer 
capabilities, and a fully automated 
interface that eliminates delays, 
reduces fraud, and builds trust.
Enabling Direct Benefit Transfers 
(DBT) ensures every rupee reaches 
the right hands–on time. Our 
agricultural engagement extends 
across key states, where we have 
partnered with procurement agencies 
and cooperative bodies to roll out 
scalable and impactful solutions. 
KEY ENGAGEMENTS IN FISCAL 2025
	»
Uttar Pradesh Upbhokta Sahakari Sangh
	»
Food & Civil Supplies Corporation – in West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, 
Tamil Nadu
	»
Bihar State Vegetable Processing & Marketing Cooperative Federation
	»
Andhra Pradesh State Farmers’ eVikraya Corporation
	»
Himachal Pradesh State Agriculture Marketing Board
Health & Education
We support government institutions 
with banking solutions and intelligent, 
tech–enabled platforms that 
improve operational efficiency and 
citizen access.
In the healthcare ecosystem, we have 
introduced AI–based face recognition 
and integrated HRMS software for 
the Health Department of Bihar, 
addressing chronic challenges like 
medical personnel absenteeism. This 
smart solution has been replicated in 
Puducherry and Dadra & Nagar Haveli 
under the National Health Mission. 
We are also proud to be associated 
with transformative health initiatives, 
including the Ayushman Bharat Health 
Infrastructure Mission in Gujarat, 
which helps build future–ready and 
inclusive health systems.
Our support to the education sector 
includes digitised fee collection 
platforms for state education boards 
and institutions, making transactions 
secure, seamless, and accessible. 
Whether it is fee automation, 
reporting dashboards, or customised 
banking products, we serve as a 
reliable digital partner to schools, 
colleges, and universities such as the 
Directorate of Education, Goa.
Har raah dil se open
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
162

DBT SERVICES PROVIDED IN  
FISCAL 2025
For partners – Government
Driving Digital Mobility 
Infrastructure
We partner with urban authorities to 
make vehicular movement frictionless, 
efficient, and future–ready.  
We pioneered India’s first  
AI+FASTag–enabled smart parking 
system in collaboration with the 
Guwahati Metropolitan Development 
Authority. This fully automated 
solution eliminates manual ticketing, 
introduces contactless entry and 
exit, and enhances overall user 
convenience, setting a new benchmark 
for urban mobility.
In Delhi, we were selected as the sole 
acquiring bank for Digital Stand Fee 
Collection at Inter–State Bus Terminals 
(ISBTs), using RFID–based FASTag 
technology. This initiative streamlines 
the collection of parking and entry 
fees, reduces congestion, enhances 
transparency, and promotes cashless 
transit ecosystems.
Direct Benefit Transfer 
(DBT) Initiatives
The Bank is playing a vital role in 
strengthening India’s DBT ecosystem, 
bridging the gap between government 
welfare schemes and citizens. We 
ensure government funds reach 
the rightful beneficiaries promptly 
and transparently.
Our DBT platforms support a wide 
range of state and centrally sponsored 
schemes, including women’s and 
child development, tribal welfare, 
and urban transformation missions. 
With seamless integration, real–time 
validations, and direct account credit, 
we eliminate leakages and bring 
dignity to social assistance.
India’s first 
AI+FASTag smart 
parking system   
Launched in Guwahati
	»
Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule 
Bal–Sangopan Yojana – 
Women & Child Development 
Department, Maharashtra
	»
Chief Minister’s Atmanirbhar 
Asom Abhijan – Assam
	»
Department of Adi Dravidar 
and Tribal Welfare – 
Tamil Nadu
	»
AMRUT (Atal Mission for 
Rejuvenation and Urban 
Transformation)
	»
Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM)
RFID–FASTag–enabled 
stand fee and parking 
collection  
Rolled out at Delhi ISBTs
163

Material Issues Linkage
M8
M12
As a financial institution, our 
environmental footprint primarily 
stems from energy consumption in 
our branches and offices, the use 
of diesel generators, and the use of 
paper in banking documentation. 
To proactively reduce this 
footprint, we are leveraging 
digital transformation, embedding 
industry–leading practices, 
and strategically investing in 
green technologies.
FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
Driving environmental impact through 
action and accountability
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
At Axis Bank, we view 
environmental stewardship 
as an integral to our 
operations, growth, and 
creation of long–term 
value. From lowering 
our carbon footprint 
to conserving natural 
resources and enabling 
sustainable finance, we 
embed responsibility 
into every aspect of our 
business. Our ESG–aligned 
lending fuels positive 
transformation across 
sectors vital to India’s 
green transition.
₹22,160 crores 
Green lending portfolio
447 
ESG–assessed proposals via 
Environmental and Social Due 
Diligence (ESDD) 
~3.27 million 
Saplings planted under CSR 
initiatives (including target of  
2 million tree plantations, 
Miyawaki plantations and other 
tree plantation programs)
ESG HIGHLIGHTS FISCAL 2025 
4 
Large offices fully powered 
by renewable energy 
~8.78% 
Energy used is drawn from 
renewable sources 
Har raah dil se open
S5
S6
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
164

Energy & Emissions
Approach to Decarbonising our Operations
Our decarbonisation pathway is aligned 
with global benchmarks, such as the 
Science–Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). 
We focus on effectively managing 
and reducing emissions across our 
direct operations (Scope 1), purchased 
electricity (Scope 2), and select indirect 
activities (Scope 3). In alignment with 
India’s climate ambitions and global 
sustainability standards, we have set 
a focused target of 3.5% reduction in 
emission intensity per full–time employee 
(FTE) by the end of fiscal 2027, with fiscal 
2023 as the baseline. 
We closely monitor Scope 1 emissions 
from diesel use by tracking monthly 
diesel expenditures and refrigerant 
leaks (ACs) in our major offices. For 
Scope 2 emissions, we review monthly 
electricity consumption data, converting 
expenditures to usage based on average 
city tariffs. Additionally, we address 
specific Scope 3 emissions, such as those 
from air travel, local transport, paper use, 
and employee commute.
For the environment
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Initiatives
We proactively invest in renewable energy and advanced energy management technologies to drive efficiency  
across our operations:
Solar Energy Initiatives
	»
Commissioned a 2 MW 
solar power plant in Solapur, 
significantly reducing our 
carbon emissions
	»
Procured ~1 MW of solar 
energy annually (3.50 lakhs 
units) through a Power Purchase 
Agreement (PPA) for our 
Bengaluru Data Centre
	»
Ensured that our top three 
offices — Axis House, Mumbai; 
MIDC, Andheri; and The Ruby, 
Dadar — operate entirely on 
100% renewable energy
Centralised Energy 
Management System
	»
Implemented CEMS across 
major branches and offices 
since fiscal 2015
	»
Enabled remote monitoring 
and control of air conditioning 
and lighting, resulting 
in substantial energy 
consumption reduction 
while maintaining optimal 
ambient conditions
165

Har raah dil se open
Operational Energy Efficiency
	»
Maintained unity power factor through Automatic 
Power Factor Correction (APFC) panels at significant 
locations, including Axis House in Mumbai and Axis 
House in Noida
	»
All branches and offices equipped with LED systems, 
resulting in a significant reduction in energy use
	»
Electrical vehicle charging facilities are available at 
large buildings, including Axis House in Mumbai, 
MIDC Andheri, and Axis House in Noida
	»
Installed star–rated, energy–efficient air conditioners, 
replacing outdated units 
	»
Motion sensors at strategic locations to enhance 
energy conservation
Green Data Centres (Bengaluru)
	»
Adopted advanced cooling technologies and thermal 
management strategies, including air–cooled chillers 
and thermal insulation
	»
Equipped server racks with temperature and humidity 
sensors integrated with Building Management Systems 
(BMS)
	»
Implemented highly efficient modular UPS systems, 
achieving operational efficiency of over 97%
	»
Installed motion–sensor LED lighting and 
environmentally friendly materials to optimise energy 
usage and enhance sustainability
	»
Pursuing green building certification to further solidify 
our commitment to sustainable operations
2,222 tCO2e
Emissions avoided annually 
because of the Solapur Solar 
Power Plant 
7,321 tCO2e
Emissions avoided as a result  
of renewable energy used at 
the Bengaluru Data Centre
Water Conservation
We actively minimise our water 
consumption through efficient 
management, recycling and 
responsible usage. Through diligent 
actions such as rainwater harvesting 
and innovative recycling solutions, we 
continually strive to reduce our water 
footprint, positively impacting our 
communities and the environment. 
We pursue targeted actions to 
conserve and responsibly manage 
water usage across our facilities, such 
as the following:
	»
Implemented a closed–loop water 
system at our Bengaluru Data 
Centre to eliminate water usage in 
cooling operations
	»
Installed rainwater harvesting 
infrastructure at our corporate 
office, Axis House, Mumbai
	»
Installed sensor–based washbasins, 
aerators, and bio–blocks at select 
offices to reduce wastage
~5.5 KL
Rainwater harvested annually 
at Axis House Mumbai 
~275 KL 
Rainwater harvested annually 
at Bengaluru Data Centre
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 
FISCAL 2025
3.87 million unit (kWh)
Annual savings due to CEMS 
and other energy efficiency 
interventions
~1,277 tCO2e
Emissions avoided by not 
printing the papers (digital 
Banking interventions)
11,347.37 tCO2e
Scope 1 Emissions
140,344.99 tCO2e
Scope 2 Emissions 
41,566.90 tCO2e
Scope 3 Emissions 
MEASURABLE IMPACT IN FISCAL 2025
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
166

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN FISCAL 2025
Habitat Restoration 
Activities
In 2021, as a part of the Bank’s ESG 
commitments, the Bank had taken an 
ambitious target of planting 2 million 
trees by fiscal 2026. As of March 
2025, through its CSR initiative, the 
Bank has completed planting ~2.02 
million trees across six locations in 
India. Since 2023, the Bank has started 
augmenting its plantation target.  
As of March 2025, the Bank, through 
its CSR partners, has planted  
~3.27 million trees (including the  
2 million target and other plantations.
The Bank is further expanding its 
activities related to habitat restoration. 
As part of this initiative, the Bank 
has set a target of planting ~8 million 
trees by 2030 (in continuation of 
our Mission 2 Million trees that we 
achieved in fiscal 2025). 
Responsible Waste 
Management 
We proactively adopt responsible 
waste management practices, driven 
by our commitment to promoting 
waste segregation, recycling 
initiatives, and digital solutions 
across our operations. We diligently 
reduce our environmental impact by 
consistently diverting waste from 
landfills and supporting the circular 
use of resources. We have taken the 
following measures:
	»
Implemented centralised systems 
at Axis House, Mumbai and select 
major offices across India to 
segregate and recycle dry waste 
into usable stationery
	»
Collaborations with certified 
vendors for safe disposal of 
electronic waste from branches 
and offices nationwide
	»
Leveraged digital banking 
initiatives (digital account opening, 
e–statements, and e–welcome 
kits) to significantly reduce 
paper consumption
~3.27 million 
Total trees planted 
(including target of  
2 million tree  
plantations, Miyawaki 
plantations  
and other tree  
plantation  
programs)
~220.60 Metric Tons   
Of dry waste (includes paper, 
Plastic, metal & glass) recycled  
in select offices (through 
authorised vendors)
396.89 Metric Tons 
Of e-waste recycled PAN–India 
(through authorised recyclers)
34.48 Metric Tons
Of battery waste recycled 
(through authorised vendors)  
in select offices
~15 million 
Sheets of paper saved annually 
as a result of various digital 
banking initiatives
For the environment
Footnotes
1. All emission calculations, including intensity assessments, energy calculations with intensity considerations, water consumption, and waste estimations, 
encompass solely Axis Bank’s operations within India. These calculations exclude any subsidiaries.
2. The reporting boundary for waste management is limited to 12 offices for Paper, 6 offices for Plastic, 4 offices for Metal, 5 offices for Batteries, 11 offices 
for organic waste, 2 offices for C&D Waste and E–waste reported for PAN–India basis.  
3. Scope 1 – Diesel related emissions are calculated on estimation basis and Scope 1 – AC – fugitive emissions are calculated on estimation basis. Similarly, 
Scope 2 emissions are calculated basis unit level consumption and expenditure.
167

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
Investing in a 
Sustainable Future
As an Indian financial institution of 
repute, we support the country’s 
development agenda in alignment 
with the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs) and India’s 
commitments under the Paris 
Agreement. We invest in sectors that 
drive equitable and environmentally 
responsible progress. Our Sustainable 
Financing Framework, aligned to the 
UN SDGs and launched in August 
2021, is a blueprint for ESG–linked  
issuances. It is the first such 
framework by an Indian Bank to 
receive a Second Party Opinion, and 
its implementation is overseen by our 
ESG Working Group.
Aware of the environmental and 
social impact of its business, the Bank 
integrates Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) considerations into 
its investment decisions. Since 2021, 
the ESG Committee of the Board 
has been guiding and overseeing the 
Bank’s efforts in this matter, with a 
sharp focus on managing climate–
related as well as ESG–related risks. 
Under the ESG Committee’s guidance 
and led by the Risk Management 
Department, we are enhancing 
our capabilities and frameworks 
for climate risk management at 
the enterprise level. This proactive 
approach not only safeguards our 
operations but also positions us to 
capitalise on emerging opportunities  
in the evolving climate landscape.
Har raah dil se open
Managing our  
Climate Risk
The interplay of climate risk and 
financial risk poses complex 
challenges to the economy and its 
participants. Climate risks both 
physical and transition–related 
operate through diverse channels 
and require comprehensive risk 
management since these impact 
business profitability, household 
wealth, financial stability, and could 
potentially lead to stranded assets. 
At both micro and macro levels, the 
fallout may range from property 
damage to capital depreciation. 
For the financial sector, this 
translates to heightened credit, 
market, underwriting, operational, 
and liquidity risks, manifesting as 
higher defaults, asset repricing, 
insurance coverage gaps, operational 
disruptions, and strained liquidity.
Actions undertaken under ESG 
Committee and Risk functions can be 
broadly placed into four focus areas:
Governance
Strengthening Board–level Oversight 
on Climate and ESG Risks
Climate and ESG risks have been 
formally integrated into our risk 
categories and are managed under the 
oversight of the Risk Committee of 
the Board. As we broaden their scope 
in our Risk Management Framework, 
we continue to strengthen the 
Committee’s governance of these 
risks. The Board’s Committee of 
Directors also evaluates key cases, 
including their assessment as per our 
‘ESG Policy for Lending’ to ensure 
alignment with our risk management 
strategy.
Policy and Controls
ESG & Climate–related Risks and 
Opportunities included in ICAAP  
Our Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment (ICAAP) evaluates ESG 
and climate risks as material risks, 
including both physical risk and 
transition risk. 
Strengthening the ESG Policy 
for Lending 
Our ‘ESG Policy for Lending’ 
integrates environmental and social 
risk assessment into our credit 
appraisal process in alignment with 
international standards. The policy’s 
implementation is overseen by the 
Environmental and Social Management 
Group within the Credit vertical.
Adopting the Sustainable Financing 
Framework and Establishing the ESG 
Working Group  
Our Sustainable Financing 
Framework, launched in 2021 in 
alignment with global standards 
like those of the International 
Capital Market Association (ICMA) 
and the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), is endorsed 
by Sustainalytics. We have also 
established the ESG Working 
Group to ensure compliance in our 
financing activities.
Risk Toolkit
ESG Rating Model Part of Credit 
Appraisal 
Piloted in fiscal 2023, our ESG rating 
model has been implemented as part 
of the credit appraisal process for 
select Wholesale Banking clients. 
Developed in–house, it encompasses 
over 80 parameters across the 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
168

E, S, and G pillars. This model aligns 
closely with International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) Performance 
Standards, reinforcing our 
commitment to integrating ESG 
principles into our lending practices. 
In current fiscal year, we have further 
enhanced this ESG rating model at a 
borrower level.
Building Capabilities around 
Stress Testing 
We are building stress testing and 
scenario analysis capabilities in 
line with regulatory guidance and 
expectations and studying external 
best practices to expedite our 
learning process.
Developing Climate Risk Dashboards 
Since the previous fiscal year, we 
have been working to enhance 
our disclosure on climate risks, 
covering key metrics for physical and 
transition risks, as well as our lending 
and financing activities to sectors 
aligned to the Sustainable Financing 
Framework. During fiscal 2025, we 
presented a snapshot of the Bank’s 
transition risk, highlighting exposures 
and asset quality in sectors facing 
high transition risk, such as coal and 
thermal power. For physical risks, we 
assessed the Bank’s retail, rural and 
SME portfolios against four major 
natural hazards in India – cyclones, 
droughts, heat waves, and floods. 
These assessments were presented to 
the ESG Committee during the year.
Capacity Building
Bank–wide ESG Education 
and Participation
We rolled out a Bank–wide ESG 
e–module last year, introducing 
employees to concepts including 
ESG, climate–related risks and 
opportunities, pertinent national 
and international frameworks and 
regulations, and the Bank’s own 
policies and activities in this space. 
Apart from the specialised internal 
and external trainings and awareness 
programs arranged by the Bank, 
programs undertaken by regulatory 
agencies and industry organisations 
keep the Bank’s employees updated 
on these matters. In fiscal 2024–25,  
For the environment - Sustainable finance
a two–day climate risk training 
workshop was organised by Indian 
and foreign experts under a UK 
government program for emerging 
economies (UK PACT), which saw the 
participation of the entire Risk and 
Corporate Underwriting verticals of 
the Bank. 
Engagement with Peers 
and Regulators
The Bank also proactively engages 
with the wider industry, its peers, 
and the regulators on the key topics, 
including ESG, climate risk, and 
sustainable finance. The Bank’s 
leadership is on key ESG and Climate 
committees, and formal groupings, 
including at the RBI, IBA, CII and 
FICCI, among others. 
In fiscal 2025, the Bank actively 
engaged with the Reserve Bank of 
India on climate risk management and 
other material topics, sharing its inputs 
and recommendations to further the 
banking sector’s active participation in 
India’s climate transition.
169

Har raah dil se open
ESG Policy for Lending
Formulated in 2015, our ESG 
Policy for Lending is aligned to the 
IFC performance standards and 
other international standards and 
frameworks on sustainable financing 
and lending. It is applied to various 
financial products, including project 
loans, corporate loans, lines of credit, 
bridge loans, overseas funding, 
consortium/multiple banking, 
syndicated loans, and refinance 
transactions, subject to internal 
criteria and threshold limits.
Under the guidance of the ESG 
Committee, the Bank has further 
expanded the scope of the Policy 
to further tighten the E&S due 
diligence requirements for proposals 
for sectors perceived to have high 
climate-related risks. The Policy is 
managed by a specialized team of E&S 
risk professionals housed under the 
Corporate Underwriting vertical. 
As a part of its due diligence, the Bank 
also actively engages with and  
advises its stakeholders on adopting  
climate-smart best practices.
447
Proposals assessed under 
ESG Policy for Lending in 
fiscal 2025
D51,000 crores
Total value of proposals 
reviewed under the ESG 
Policy for Lending in  
fiscal 2025
Fiscal 2025
Cat A
Cat B+
Cat B
Cat C
Cat Fl
Total Count
Cases Eligible
1
0
74
2
1
78
COD cases Review of Project portfolio/Group Companies portfolio 
w.r.t. IFC Performance Standards for the ESG Compliances
369
Total cases in fiscal 2025
447
The summary of project categories and due diligence under the policy are also accessible 
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default–source/default–document–library/esg–policy–
and–procedure.pdf
The categorisation of cases reflects the status as of March 31, 2025. It is to be noted that due to 
material changes in the proposal or project, the categorisation of cases can also change over the 
duration of the loan. In fiscal 2022, projects were categorised as A, B+, B, C, FI under our ESG 
Policy for Lending. We undertook a self–assessment of the policy under the IFC’s ESMS diagnostic 
tool, which benchmarks environmental and social management systems (such as our ESG Policy 
for Lending) against IFC’s performance standards and global best practices. The tool evaluates on 
the basis of nine parameters, such as policy, due diligence, governance, capacity, and the control 
environment, categorising them as ‘State of the Art’, ‘Developed’, and ‘Emerging’. Our ESG Policy 
for Lending scored ‘State of the Art’ on four parameters and ‘Developed’ on three. We are now 
embedding the learnings into our processes. 
369
Cases related to sustainable 
financing were heard at the 
Board–level during the year
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
170

Case Studies Highlighting Environmental and Social Due Diligence (ESDD) 
Conducted under the ESG Policy for Lending
Case Study
Case Study
Empowering 
Green Mobility 
with  
ESG–driven 
Lending 
Oversight
Independent 
Consulting 
for High–risk 
Assets 
To boost e–mobility in rural and 
non–Metro India, a targeted loan 
product was designed, especially 
for low–income communities. This 
initiative, part of a co–lending 
arrangement with a sub–borrower 
(an NBFC in this case), also aimed 
to support affordable transport 
solutions and green infrastructure.
What set this lending apart was the 
due diligence conducted on sub–
borrower’s operations, including 
upstream and downstream lending, 
in alignment with IFC performance 
standards. Among the major points 
considered were Environmental 
In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank initiated 
the sanction process for the 
acquisition of a thermal asset 
under NCLT – a project marked 
as Category A owing to its high 
environmental and social (E&S) risk. 
In line with our ESG Policy 
of Lending and international 
best practices, we engaged an 
independent E&S consulting 
support to conduct enhanced due 
diligence prior to loan disbursement. 
This process is aligned with IFC 
performance standards and 
other globally recognised E&S 
frameworks. The independent 
and Social Management System 
(ESMS) related to the supply 
chain of the NBFC, labour and 
working conditions for workers/
contractors, road safety risks 
for two–wheeler users and 
safety standards related to e–
two–wheelers safety standards, 
especially those concerning 
unsafe battery charging. This 
approach demonstrates how 
targeted lending, when backed 
by robust ESG safeguards, can 
enable inclusive growth while 
actively managing social and 
environmental risks.
advisory assessed the project’s 
potential impacts, including 
legacy risks, and provided a 
comprehensive Environment & 
Social Action Plan (ESAP), which 
forms a part of our annual review 
and monitoring obligations in 
accordance with the project’s 
development stage. This case 
reflects Axis Bank’s commitment 
to robust ESG risk management, 
particularly in complex, high–risk 
transactions, and underscores the 
value of expert–led, independent 
assessment in upholding 
responsible financing standards.
For the environment - Sustainable finance
171

Har raah dil se open
Case Study
Going 
beyond 
ESG Policy 
for Critical 
Sectors 
In fiscal 2025, Axis Bank initiated 
the sanction process for a project 
in the water–intensive sector and 
high–pollution paper sector. Although 
the proposal was not within the 
scope of ESG Policy of Lending of the 
Bank, the critical environmental risks 
associated with the sector prompted 
an enhanced review. The Bank opted 
to go beyond policy requirement to 
undertake a thorough site visit to 
assess the Company’s environmental 
and social (E&S) performance 
firsthand. This included evaluating 
water use, effluent management, 
and compliance with pollution 
control norms.
This proactive approach reflects Axis 
Bank’s evolving ESG risk framework, 
where materiality of impact, rather 
than policy thresholds alone, guides 
decision–making. It reinforces the 
Bank’s commitment to responsible 
lending, especially in environmentally 
sensitive sectors.
Scaling the Green Wholesale 
Portfolio
We are continuously working to expand our Wholesale 
Banking lending portfolio in sustainable sectors, including 
renewable energy generation, urban mass transport, 
electric mobility, and green infrastructure. 
Green Lending Portfolio 
FY 2024–25
FY 2023–24
FY 2022–23
FY 2021–22
FY 2020–21
9,753
12,255
18,142
18,907
22,160
(I in crores)
In 2021, under the oversight 
of the ESG Committee of the 
Board, the Bank had committed 
to accelerating its lending 
activities towards the following 
goals. The target for Wholesale 
Banking was achieved in 
fiscal 2024 itself whereas, for 
the Retail two–wheeler loan 
portfolio target was till fiscal 
2024. The Bank then took on 
a revised targets in this fiscal 
for Wholesale Banking and EV 
Wheels which are articulated 
along with its achievement in 
fiscal 2025 below:
Revised Target
Fiscal 2025 Achievements
60,000 crores
Incremental financial under 
Wholesale Banking to sectors 
with positive social and 
environmental outcomes by 
fiscal 2030 (from fiscal 2021)
~₹48,412 crores
sanctioned
6%
Two–Wheeler (2W) loan 
portfolio by fiscal 2027*
4%
Increase in share of EV revenue 
(₹) in Four–Wheeler (4W) 
passenger loan portfolio  
by fiscal 2027*
7.14%
penetration for two–wheeler
2.92%
penetration for four–wheeler
*Penetration target for each fiscal in 4W and 2W segments respectively
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
172

Decarbonising our 
Lending Portfolio
Under the oversight of our ESG 
Committee, we are reducing our 
exposure to carbon–intensive 
sectors like thermal power and 
coal within our Wholesale Banking 
portfolio in alignment with India’s 
Net Zero ambitions. At this moment 
this is an internal commitment and 
progress made over a glide path that 
is in place till 2030 is reviewed by 
the ESG Committee of the Board 
and the Bank’s leadership.  While 
thermal power remains crucial for 
the country’s economic growth in the 
medium term, we understand that 
1.2%
Exposure to thermal power 
generation and coal mining, 
logistics and trading in the 
Bank’s total exposure (as of 
March 31, 2025)
India’s ambitious plans for renewable 
energy, green hydrogen, carbon 
trading, and technological innovation 
are critical for its transition to a low–
carbon economy in the midst of global 
challenges. At the same time, it is 
important for the energy transition to 
be just and equitable, particularly for 
vulnerable sections and communities.
Impetus to Retail EV 
Financing
In fiscal 2021, the Bank had taken 
a target, to have 5% of our retail 
two–wheeler loan portfolio (in rupee 
value) in electric by March 2024.  
We improved our product offerings 
and incentives to boost this growing 
sector. Last fiscal, the cumulative 
percentage of EV loans stood at 
3.62% of the total two–wheeler loan 
portfolio since October 2021, when 
the Bank began EV two–wheeler 
loans as a product. In 2021, we 
were thus starting from a very small 
nominator. When compared against 
12,704
EV loans offered in  
fiscal 2025
another industry–prevalent metric 
– percentage of EV sales per month, 
the Bank had performed well. For 
example, EV sales penetration was 
above 5% in 9 of the 12 months in 
fiscal 2024, and at 5.53% for the entire 
financial year.
In this fiscal, the Bank relooked at 
this target and decided to take on the 
below targets:
	»
Increasing share of electric vehicle 
revenue (INR) in Two–Wheeler loan 
portfolio – 6% by 2027
	»
Increasing share of electric vehicle 
revenue (INR) in Four–Wheeler 
passenger loan portfolio – 4% 
by 2027
Against which the Bank has achieved 
7.14% penetration for 2–wheeler and 
2.92% penetration for 4–wheeler 
respectively in FY 2024–25. The Bank 
continues to offer a sector–leading up 
to 0.5% interest rate discount for retail 
customers in the EV segment. Special 
offering for certain OEMs with an 
increased payout helped increase the 
EV penetration in the market. 
Special deals with select OEMs and 
higher payouts have also supported 
greater EV adoption. We have 
proactively scaled up our partnerships 
and engagements with EV dealers, 
manufacturers, and other players in 
the commercial EV space, which is also 
influenced by factors such as battery 
technology and the level of subsidies. 
The Bank continues to maintain its 
bullishness on the sector and has 
communicated to the ESG Committee 
its intent to set fresh targets for EV 2 
wheeler and 4 wheeler loans.
For the environment - Sustainable finance
173

Har raah dil se open
E–Mobility Loan Guarantee with 
GuarantCo in November 2021
During COP26 in Glasgow, Axis 
Bank announced a partnership 
with the guarantee arm of 
the Private Infrastructure 
Development Group (PIDG), 
GuarantCo, committing to 
establish a $200 million umbrella 
guarantee framework. Part of a 
broader $300 million program, 
the initiative aims to accelerate 
financing for entities involved in 
EV manufacturing, distribution 
and charging infrastructure.
Extending ₹1 billion Loan 
to Muthoot Capital under 
GuarantCo Partnership
In September 2024, with 
GuarantCo, the Bank extended 
₹1 billion (~$12 million) loan for 
2.5 years to Muthoot Capital 
Services Limited (MCSL). This 
funding will empower MCSL to 
lend to customers in rural and 
non–metro regions in India for 
purchasing new EVs. GuarantCo 
Partnering with IFC for a $500 Mn 
Climate Loan in India
In partnership with Axis Bank, IFC 
has provided a $500 million loan 
to scale up green financing in India. 
The collaboration also marks IFC’s 
first–ever blue investment in India 
and the country’s first blue loan 
issued by a financial institution. 
Blue finance, an emerging area 
in climate finance, aims to invest 
has provided a 65% on–demand 
credit guarantee to Axis Bank for 
this transaction.
Extending ₹2.5 billion Loan to 
Vivriti Capital
On December 12, 2023, in 
collaboration with GuarantCo, 
Axis Bank provided a three–year 
loan of ₹2.5 billion to Vivriti 
Capital, an impact focused Indian 
NBFC. This financing supports 
Vivriti Capital’s objective of 
providing loans to companies 
within India’s e–mobility 
ecosystem, contributing to 
sustainable development in  
the sector.
Investing in ₹2 billion NCD of 
Vivriti Capital
In March 2025, Axis Bank, with 
GuarantCo cover, invested 
₹2 billion (~$24 Mn) in the 
70–month non–convertible 
debenture (NCD) of Vivriti 
Capital Ltd. The funding is to be 
used for on–lending in identified 
infra opportunities such as 
renewables, solar power etc. 
GuarantCo has provided a 65% 
on–demand credit guarantee to 
Axis Bank for this transaction. 
Extending ₹1 billion Loan to  
Everest Fleet
On January 10, 2024, in 
partnership with GuarantCo, 
the Bank facilitated a four–year 
loan of ₹1 billion to Everest 
Fleet, India’s largest independent 
fleet management provider. 
This financing empowers 
Everest Fleet to acquire EVs 
for deployment as green taxis, 
aligning with India’s sustainable 
transportation goals.
in sustainable water management, 
marine ecosystem restoration, 
sustainable shipping, and renewable 
energy.
India’s First Sustainable AT1 
Issuance
Axis Bank undertook India’s first 
sustainable AT1 issuance priced  
at $600 million in the overseas 
markets on September 1, 2021. 
With this issuance, India became 
the second jurisdiction in Asia with 
an ESG AT1 issuance.
Partnering to Accelerate EV Transition in India
Collaborations, Deals and Associations
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
174

Sustainable Club Loan of  
$150 million from HSBC & 
MUFG
The Bank concluded a 
Sustainable Club Loan from 
HSBC and MUFG for a total 
of $150 million in GIFT City 
branch in May 2023, aligned 
with its Sustainability Financing 
Framework*. 
$200 million Bilateral Loan from 
MUFG under the Sustainable 
Financing Framework
The Bank availed a  
$200 million bilateral loan from 
MUFG in March 2024 aligned 
to its Sustainable Financing 
Framework. The purpose of 
the loan is to finance and/or 
refinance eligible green projects 
and/or eligible social projects.
Lead Arranger in Biocon’s 
Acquisition of Viatris
The Bank was the lead arranger 
for a sustainability–linked loan 
in the pharmaceuticals and 
biomanufacturing sector in the 
Asia–Pacific region, with the 
proceeds earmarked to support 
Biocon Biologics’ acquisition of the 
global Biosimilars business of its 
partner, Viatris Inc. This is one of 
the largest outbound cross–border 
M&A financings from India.
*Read about our Sustainability Financing Framework 
https://www.axisbank.com/docs/default–source/default–document–library/axis–bank–sustainable–financing–framework.pdf
Collaborating to Offer Supply 
Chain Finance
Axis Bank has signed a Partial 
Guarantee Facility Agreement 
(PGFA) with the Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) to 
support supply chain financing 
for impact sectors. Under the 
arrangement, ADB will provide 
guarantees (variable) to the 
lending done by Axis Bank.  
The program is scalable, with 
an initial foundation ramp up of 
nearly $150 million.
Green Home  
Loans
In partnership with Mahindra 
Lifespace in November 2023, 
Axis Bank offers customers home 
loans at competitive rates for 
green projects. In fiscal 2025, 
43 fresh home loans for ₹38.03 
crores were sanctioned under 
the Mahindra Lifespace project. 
Rooftop Solar Financing  
for SMEs
The Bank has funded rooftop solar 
projects amounting to ₹5.7 crores 
under its SME financing portfolio. 
Average capacity of the rooftop 
solar project is ~135 KW. The 
Bank has also signed an MoU with 
SIDBI for a GIFT Scheme towards 
green investment financing.  
Engagement with Subsidiary Entities 
Within the ‘One Axis’ framework, we offer a wide range of products and solutions through our business segments and 
subsidiaries alongside the services provided by our banking segments. Similarly, we are cognisant of the importance of  
a two–way engagement with our subsidiary companies on ESG matters to create shared value. Regular engagements with 
our subsidiaries help us exchange best ESG practices and communicate our priorities to create positive impact.
Other Marquee Transactions
For the environment - Sustainable finance
175

Governance
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
176

Strong governance is the cornerstone of Axis 
Bank’s commitment to integrity, transparency, and 
accountability. Our robust governance framework 
ensures ethical decision–making, effective risk 
management, and alignment with stakeholder interests. 
By fostering a culture of ownership and responsible 
leadership, we safeguard long–term value creation and 
maintain the trust that is vital to our sustained success.
177

Governance
Material Issues Linkage
M1
M2
M3
Our Governance Framework
The Bank’s governance framework 
clearly defines the roles, 
responsibilities, and reporting 
structures across the Board, 
management, and key committees. 
Our Board and its committees 
are entrusted with setting the 
strategic direction, defining the 
Bank’s risk appetite, and ensuring 
rigorous oversight to safeguard 
stakeholder interests.
CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE
An openness grounded in trust 
and accountability
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Our governance 
framework is built on the 
principles of transparency, 
accountability and ethical 
conduct. Guided by an 
openness to scrutiny and 
responsible leadership, 
we ensure that every 
decision and action we 
take upholds the trust 
of our stakeholders and 
reflects our commitment 
to fairness, inclusion and 
long–term value creation.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
178

Corporate governance
Governance Structure 
Board Composition 
The composition of the Board is 
governed by relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act 2013 (the ‘Act’) and 
the relevant rules made thereunder, 
the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (the ‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, 
guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI), as amended from time to 
time and the Articles of Association of 
the Bank (the ‘extant laws’).
As of March 31, 2025, the Board 
comprised 13 Directors, including the 
Managing Director and CEO, Deputy 
Managing Director, 2 Executive 
Directors, 8 Independent Directors, 
and 1 Nominee Director from the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), 
the Bank’s promoter. An Independent 
Director and a part–time Chairman 
leads the Board. 
Board  
of Directors
Sets strategic  
direction for the Bank
Board Committees
Provide oversight on key areas,  
including risk, audit, remuneration, 
and compliance
MD & CEO, Deputy MD and Executive Directors
Lead strategic execution and oversee major 
business verticals
Management and Executive Committees
Drive performance and operational excellence and 
implement Board–approved strategies
Business units and supporting functions
Execute operations, deliver services, and manage risks in alignment  
with strategic goals
2
3
4
5
1
8   
Independent Directors 
among a total of 13 Directors
2  
Women Directors
12  
Directors >50 years
1  
Director <50 years
179

Governance
Board Expertise 
Our Board comprises distinguished 
professionals with expertise across 
diverse disciplines, each contributing 
to the Bank’s commitment to 
sustainable value creation. Anchored 
to a customer–first approach and 
guided by the highest standards 
of ethical governance, the Board 
leverages its collective experience 
to drive innovation and long–
term growth.
Board Skill and Experience* 
Finance
85%
11
% of Directors
Number of Directors
Business Management
69%
% of Directors
Number of Directors
Banking
69%
% of Directors
Human Resources
69%
% of Directors
Number of Directors
Information Technology
69%
% of Directors
Risk Management
62%
% of Directors
9
9
8
Number of Directors
Number of Directors
Number of Directors
9
9
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
180

Accountancy
6
% of Directors
Number of Directors
Agriculture and Rural Economy
% of Directors
Number of Directors
Co–operation
% of Directors
Economics
% of Directors
Number of Directors
Small Scale Industry
% of Directors
Payment and Settlement Systems
Law
% of Directors
% of Directors
Corporate governance
15%
23%
15%
15%
*as per Banking Regulation Act
4
3
3
2
Number of Directors
Number of Directors
Number of Directors
Number of Directors
2
2
46%
31%
23%
181

Board Committees 
The Board has constituted various 
board level committees for a more 
focused review of specific matters. 
The Bank has also constituted various 
executive committees to inter alia 
deal with routine, operational and 
administrative matters, and review 
various matters before its submission 
to the Board/committees.
Governance
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
Composition: 
Role: Addressing grievances of 
security holders, review complaints, 
adherence to service standards 
and measures to reduce 
unclaimed dividends.
Risk Management 
Committee
Composition: 
Role: Oversees the Bank’s 
risk strategy, defines risk 
appetite, implements robust risk 
management policies, evaluates 
risk categories, and reviews 
cyber security measures and 
appointment of Chief Risk  
Officer (CRO).
Audit Committee  
of the Board
Composition: 
Role: Reviewing findings of 
audits, reviewing internal control 
systems, compliance, related party 
transactions, financial reporting 
and its integrity, and active 
engagement with the Group Chief 
Compliance Officer and Group 
Chief Audit Executive.
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
Composition: 
Role: Evaluates talent management 
strategy, establishes performance 
benchmarks, reviews remuneration 
policies, recommends board 
composition changes and senior 
management changes, and oversees 
human resource strategy.
 Non–executive Director
 Whole–Time Directors
Special Committee of the 
Board for Monitoring and 
Follow–up of Cases of Frauds
Composition: 
Role: Monitors and review 
fraud cases, ensures systemic 
corrections, examination 
of staff accountability, and 
review of timely reporting to 
regulatory authorities.
IT and Digital Strategy 
Committee
Composition: 
Role: Approves and oversees IT 
strategy, reviews cyber incidents, 
aligns technology strategy with 
business objectives/requirements, 
evaluates IT and cyber security 
risks, oversees IT operations, 
and guides the Bank’s digital 
transformation journey.
Committee of Directors 
Composition: 
Role: Provides approval for loans 
as per the limits, reviews credit 
policy, exposures, settlements, 
treasury investments, 
reviews and evaluates critical 
business proposals across 
various departments.
Customer Service Committee 
Composition: 
Role: Supervises functioning 
of customers’ sub–committees, 
addresses complaints, reviews and 
approve customer–centric policies, 
monitors regulatory compliance, 
and reviews initiatives to enhance 
service standards and overall 
customer experience.
 Independent Director
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
182

 Non–executive Director
 Whole–Time Directors
Corporate governance
Committee of  
Whole–Time Directors
Composition: 
Role: Review and approve routine 
administrative matters such as 
issuance of power of attorney, 
allotment of securities, and 
such other matters as may be 
delegated to it by the Board or 
Board Committee
Acquisitions, Divestments, and 
Mergers Committee (ADAM)
Composition: 
Role: Consider and recommend 
proposals relating to mergers, 
acquisitions, strategic 
investments, and divestments. 
Review Committee
Composition: 
Role: Consider proposal of 
identification Committee for 
classifications of a borrower as 
wilful defaulter. 
ESG Committee
Composition: 
Role: Guiding the Bank’s ESG 
strategy, highlighting key  
material ESG topics, reviewing  
ESG–related policies for 
regulatory compliance, and 
advises on adoption of relevant 
performance metrics and targets.
CSR Committee
Composition: 
Role: Defines, formulates, and 
reviews the Bank’s CSR strategy 
and themes, oversees and 
approve allocation of CSR funds, 
monitors CSR projects, and 
ensures alignment with the Bank’s 
commitment to sustainable social 
and environmental initiatives.
Policies and Frameworks 
A robust set of policies and 
frameworks underpins the Bank’s 
approach to responsible governance, 
guiding decision–making, risk 
management, and ethical conduct 
across all levels of the organisation.
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct and Ethics 
reflects our unwavering dedication 
to ethical conduct and integrity, 
reinforced by our core values. It sets 
clear expectations for employee 
conduct, ensures compliance 
with regulatory standards and 
provides mechanisms for reporting 
ethical violations. New hires must 
acknowledge the Code, while 
existing staff annually reaffirm 
their commitment.
Besides the Code of Conduct 
(including the Anti–Bribery and 
Corruption related provisions), policies 
related to the Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment (POSH), Whistleblower 
Mechanism, Conflict of Interest, and 
Staff Accountability framework guide 
employee conduct. 
Tax Policy
This policy ensures the Bank handles 
its tax affairs responsibly, complies 
with relevant laws, and fulfils its 
disclosure obligations in keeping 
with international standards such as 
the OECD guidelines. It aligns tax 
management with the Bank’s business 
strategy to support long–term value 
creation and maintain a strong, 
responsible taxpayer profile.
Whistleblower and  
Vigil Mechanism
We maintain a zero–tolerance policy 
for breaches of our Code of Conduct 
and Ethics. Our Whistleblower Policy 
and vigil mechanism encourage 
employees to report any illegal, 
unethical, or inappropriate conduct, 
ensuring the anonymity and protection 
of the whistleblower. Complaints can 
be reported anonymously through our 
dedicated web–based platform.
 Independent Director
673   
Incidents reported under the 
Whistleblower Policy
Whistleblower Complaints       (%)
Anonymous 
complaints
Specific 
complaints
45
55
183

Governance
343
Vigilance cases processed in 
fiscal 2025
427  
Officials were subjected to 
disciplinary action during  
the year
Anti–corruption and Anti–bribery
The Bank’s vigilance function, 
governed by a Board–approved 
policy, is led by the Chief of Internal 
Vigilance (CIV), who drives preventive 
vigilance, supports policy formulation 
and reports to the Board’s Audit 
Committee. Key initiatives include 
conducting the Vigilance Awareness 
Week, annual staff declarations, 
upholding the Bank’s Anti–Bribery and 
Anti–Corruption Policy online, training, 
and ensuring service providers uphold 
vigilance standards.
Conflict of Interest Policy
The Conflict of Interest Policy 
identifies, prevents, and manages 
conflicts between employees and 
stakeholders. Employees are advised to 
avoid business with relatives, prioritise 
the Bank’s interests, and report 
conflicts to the Ethics Department.
Human Rights
Our approach is guided by our Human 
Rights Policy, which aligns with 
international human rights frameworks 
established by the UN, ILO, and OECD. 
We have established systems and 
procedures in place to prevent human 
rights violations across our operations. 
Compliance
Compliance is a key pillar of Axis Bank’s 
corporate governance, reinforced by 
Board–approved policies and a 
zero–tolerance approach to  
non–compliance. In collaboration  
with Risk and Internal Audit functions, 
the Compliance department 
proactively manages regulatory 
risks, guides business units, and uses 
tech tools to strengthen oversight. 
A group governance framework 
ensures that subsidiaries align with 
the Bank’s standards. The Group Chief 
Compliance Officer (GCCO) oversees 
consistent compliance across the 
group through structured reporting 
and monitoring.
Note: Detailed information on all 
our policies, including the ones 
mentioned above, can be accessed 
on our website at   
https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/corporate-
governance
Subsidiary Governance
Axis Bank oversees its subsidiaries 
to ensure they adhere to corporate 
governance principles. The Bank is 
committed to continuously improving 
internal controls and overseeing 
its subsidiaries as a Financial 
Conglomerate (FC). 
To ensure the alignment of governance 
practices at the Group (Axis Bank and 
its subsidiaries) level and to positively 
engage the Group, the Bank has 
established a Subsidiary Governance 
Committee (SGC). This committee 
also helps implement the ‘One Axis’ 
theme by sharing uniform practices 
and building synergies between Group 
entities. Additionally, along with SGC, 
all matters of subsidiary governance 
are overseen by the executive 
committees, the Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee (EGRMC)  
and the Board of the Bank.
The Bank continues to undertake 
several initiatives to strengthen 
the Governance Framework under 
the supervision of the SGC. The 
framework also helps align key 
organisation functions, such as 
Risk, Compliance, Audit, Human 
Resources, Finance, Information 
Technology, Cyber Security, Legal, 
Corporate Communication, Marketing, 
and Corporate Secretarial across 
the Group. 
ESG Governance
The Bank’s establishment of the 
standalone ESG Committee in 2021,  
a pioneering move in the Indian 
banking sector, reflects its deep–seated 
commitment to Environmental, Social, 
and Governance (ESG) principles. The 
ESG committee drives initiatives in 
alignment with the Bank’s purpose 
statement—banking for a more inclusive 
and equitable economy, fostering a 
thriving community and  
a healthier planet. 
The ESG Committee of the Board is 
supported by a management–level ESG 
Steering Committee and ESG Working 
Group to drive Sustainable Financing 
initiatives. The Bank has in place a 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 
Council to shape and drive the Bank’s DEI 
priorities. The ESG Committee ensures 
integration of ESG goals with the Bank’s 
operations, enhancing stakeholder trust, 
and establishing Axis Bank as a leader in 
sustainable and ‘open’ banking practices.
In fiscal 2025, the ESG Committee of 
the Board met four times, reviewing the 
Bank’s progress towards achieving its 
ESG–aligned commitments and providing 
guidance on new initiatives and activities. 
The Bank’s overall ESG–aligned activities, 
highlights and developments during 
the fiscal year, including its progress on 
its commitments, are published in this 
report and the ESG data book fiscal 
2025, prepared per the <IIRC> and GRI 
reporting framework.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
184

Corporate governance
Committee Member
ESG Committee
Chairman
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Independent Director
G. Padmanabhan 
Independent Director
Amitabh Chaudhry  
MD & CEO
Fraud Risk Management   
The Bank’s governance framework 
for fraud risk management integrates 
advanced methodologies and strategic 
oversight to prevent, detect, and 
mitigate fraud risks. The Financial 
Crime Intelligence (FCI) unit is 
central to our operations, ensuring 
transparency and security in every 
customer interaction. The unit 
leverages cutting–edge technology, 
real–time analytics, and robust internal 
controls to build a fraud–resistant 
environment. We aim to position the 
Bank as the most preferred banking 
choice for customers and the least 
attractive option for fraudsters.
Key Initiatives of the FCI Unit 
The Bank is focusing on enhancing 
fraud prevention capabilities through 
streamlined yet secure onboarding, 
advanced technologies to combat 
cyber threats like phishing and 
transaction laundering, and cross–
authentication methods for enhanced 
security. Real–time anomaly detection 
helps prevent account takeovers, while 
proactive measures address mule 
account fraud. Strong collaboration 
with law enforcement and the Indian 
Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) 
enables swift action against cyber 
fraud. Enhanced staff monitoring and 
targeted training reinforce internal 
controls and fraud resilience.
Fraud awareness and engagement are 
necessary to empower customers, 
employees, and corporate clients 
to identify and mitigate fraud risks. 
Among the key initiatives in this regard 
are the following:
	»
Customer Awareness: Digital 
campaigns (SMS, email, app, social 
media), educational blogs and self–
service security tools.
	»
Employee Engagement: Regular 
fraud risk training, leadership 
discussions, monthly ‘Sparsh 
Pulsate’ sessions, and internal 
awareness drives.
	»
Corporate Client Advisory: 
Industry–specific workshops on 
secure digital practices and cyber 
threat mitigation.
	»
Future–ready Fraud Defence: 
Enhanced verification via risk–based 
and multi–factor authentication, 
AI–driven behavioural analytics, 
refined fraud algorithms, seamless 
security integration, stronger 
onboarding checks, self–service 
security dashboards, and real–time 
anomaly detection.
(As on April 24, 2025)
185

Risk Governance Framework
A robust and comprehensive Risk 
Management Framework enables 
proactive and comprehensive risk 
management. It provides guidelines 
for managing various risks, including 
credit, liquidity, market, operational, 
compliance and reputation risk.
The Board, which is the apex 
governing body, has both direct 
and indirect responsibilities for 
risk oversight, which are exercised 
through the Risk Management 
Committee (RMC) of the Board. 
The principal authority responsible 
for risk management, the RMC is 
assisted by an independent Risk 
function that reports to both the 
Board and the RMC.
The policies and frameworks 
approved by the executive 
committees and the RMC 
are implemented by the Risk 
Management Department (RMD), 
headed by the Chief Risk Officer 
(CRO). The Board, which appoints 
the CRO and decides the CRO’s 
role and responsibilities, plays 
a pivotal role in ensuring the 
appointee’s independence. The 
CRO, who steers the Bank’s risk 
management strategy, reports 
directly to the MD & CEO. The RMD 
operates autonomously and actively 
participates in critical decision–
making forums.
Proactive management of focus 
areas will contribute to a credit–led 
growth in the retail space while 
maintaining strong focus on cyber 
security, technological resilience, and 
embedding sustainability through 
a robust risk culture. The roadmap 
also includes targeted initiatives on 
managing subsidiary risk, operational 
risk, vendor risk, fraud risk, digital risk, 
and underwriting standards. Successful 
execution of these measures will 
enable the Bank to achieve its GPS 
objectives sustainably.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Resilience through purposeful 
risk stewardship
Governance
We maintain a robust 
and comprehensive Risk 
Management Framework 
that empowers 
us to identify and 
address evolving risks 
proactively. Supported 
by an independent 
Risk function, the 
Board maintains a keen 
oversight on every aspect 
of risk management, 
ensuring transparency, 
accountability, and 
resilience.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
186

Risk Management Committee (RMC) Members
G. Padmanabhan 
Chairperson,  
Independent  
Director
Amitabh Chaudhry  
Member,  
Managing Director 
& CEO
Girish Paranjpe  
Member,  
Independent  
Director
Pranam Wahi 
Member,  
Independent  
Director
Munish Sharda  
Member,  
Executive  
Director
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE 
RMC IN FISCAL 2025
KEY FOCUS AREAS FOR 
FISCAL 2026
Strengthened 
Group 
risk oversight
Enhancing governance around 
risk appetite 
Enhanced 
monitoring and 
risk coverage
Ensuring 
cyber security
Model risk 
enhancements
Managing 
digital and 
technology risk
Stress 
testing framework 
enhancements
Unsecured 
lending, 
including models
Strengthened  
cyber security
Risk & 
compliance 
culture
Strengthened 
risk resilience
Risk Governance Structure
Operation Risk 
Management 
Committee (ORMC)
BCP & Crisis 
Management 
Committee (BCPMC)
Asset and Liability 
Management 
Committee (ALCO)
Apex 
Committee
Information 
Systems Security 
Committee (ISSC)
Subsidiary  
Governance  
Committee (SGC)
Enterprise & Group  
Risk Management 
Committee (EGRMC)
Credit Risk 
Management 
Committee (CRMC)
Central  
Outsourcing  
Committee (COC)
Board of Directors
Executive Risk Committee
 Risk Management Department
Risk management
187

Other Components of Risk Management
Foundational Pillars of Risk Management
Risk Management Approach
Our approach to risk management is not just about safeguarding assets, it is about cultivating trust, transparency, and 
resilience through every decision we make. Built on four foundational pillars, our framework empowers us to anticipate 
uncertainties, respond proactively, and confidently navigate them.
Risk Philosophy
Risk Identification and 
Mitigation
Risk Appetite 
and Policies
Risk Culture
A robust risk culture is 
reinforced at all levels. 
Our Board and senior 
management lead by 
example, championing 
openness, accountability, 
and transparency. The 
compliance function 
and RMD ensure the 
culture permeates across 
the group.
Governance
Through vigilant 
monitoring, the RMD 
remains cognisant of 
emerging risks, reporting 
them on time to the Board 
and RMC via established 
frameworks such as ICAAP 
and Risk Dashboards.  
In close collaboration 
with the business units, 
RMD ensures effective 
risk mitigation, fostering 
a culture where everyone 
actively owns and manages 
risks in their daily roles.
Our clearly defined 
risk appetite, 
approved by the RMC, 
empowers informed  
decision–making.  
Robust, Board–approved 
policies transparently 
outline our risk–taking  
boundaries. Executive 
committees and the 
Risk Management 
Department (RMD) 
ensure effective 
and transparent 
implementation.
Internal Audit
The Bank’s Internal Audit function 
independently evaluates internal 
controls, risk management, and 
governance, and reports to the Board on 
compliance with internal and regulatory 
guidelines. Guided by the RBI’s Risk–
Based Internal Audit (RBIA) standards, 
the Bank’s audit policy emphasises a 
strategic focus on emerging business 
risks. A range of audit methodologies 
are followed by Internal Audit, which has 
also embraced technology–driven audits 
to enhance efficiency and effectiveness. 
Emphasis is laid on continuous skill–
building and compliance with guidelines 
and established standards to uphold 
robust controls, which reflects our 
commitment to building trust and 
openness amongst stakeholders.
Business Continuity Plan
The Business Continuity Plan (BCP) is 
overseen by the Business Continuity 
Planning Management Committee 
(BCPMC), an executive risk committee 
mandated by the RMC. The committee 
ensures effective implementation and 
testing of the BCP framework across 
critical internal operations, preparing the 
Bank to respond seamlessly to various 
contingency scenarios. Insights gathered 
from these tests and exercises are 
systematically integrated into the BCP to 
ensure uninterrupted services and trust–
building with customers.
Fraud Detection and Mitigation
Guided by a comprehensive Fraud Risk 
Management Policy, which is reinforced 
by established processes, the Bank is 
committed to providing robust protection 
against fraud. An advanced IT system 
ensures that transactions are monitored 
in real–time, ensuring that suspicious 
activities are immediately detected.  
An enterprise–wide anti–money 
laundering (AML) software generates 
timely alerts, enabling efficient 
monitoring, investigation, and reporting 
of potentially fraudulent transactions. 
A dedicated fraud management system 
further strengthens the Bank’s defences 
by actively tackling fraudulent activities 
in credit and debit card transactions.
At the Bank, risk is 
everyone’s responsibility. 
Recognising that trust 
is invaluable, we ensure 
that compliance and 
reputation protection 
are non–negotiable. This 
shared responsibility 
fosters a culture of 
integrity and openness, 
where protecting 
our stakeholders’ 
interests becomes our 
topmost priority.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
188

Specific Risk Management Initiatives
Capital Linkage
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
SDGs Impacted
Risk Status
Risk Status
Mitigation Measures
Mitigation Measures
Credit risk refers to the potential financial 
loss when a counterparty, such as a 
customer, borrower, or security issuer, 
fails to fulfil contractual obligations. 
Our credit risk management is designed 
to maintain asset quality and manage 
concentration risks at both individual 
exposure and portfolio levels.
Market risk arises from potential losses 
in on– and off–balance sheet positions, 
resulting from market price movements 
and their associated volatility, which can 
impact the Bank’s earnings and capital. 
This includes interest rate, equity price, 
and foreign exchange rates. Our trading 
and investment activities, carried out for 
customers and on a proprietary basis, are 
primary sources of market risk.
Credit Risk
Market Risk
Wholesale Banking
Internal ratings form 
the backbone of our 
risk management 
process, determining 
risk acceptance, 
maximum exposure 
limits, sanctioning 
authority, pricing, and 
review frequency.
Comprehensive 
Framework
The Bank employs a 
well–defined market risk 
management framework, 
guided by clear policies, 
guidelines, and processes, 
to identify, measure, 
monitor, and report 
exposures within its 
risk appetite.
Independent Oversight
RMD independently 
monitors investment and 
trading portfolios, ensuring 
adherence to predefined 
risk limits and promptly 
reporting deviations.
Statistical & Non–
Statistical Measures
The Bank utilises statistical 
tools, including Value at 
KEY MATERIAL RISKS 
KEY MATERIAL RISKS 
Risk management
Retail Banking
Product–specific 
scorecards are used 
for retail customers, 
including small businesses 
and small agriculture 
borrowers. An independent 
validation team rigorously 
evaluates these credit 
models to ensure robust 
discriminatory power, 
precise calibration, and 
long–term stability.
Risk (VaR), stress tests, back 
tests, and scenario analysis,  
as well as non–statistical 
measures such as position 
limits, Marked–to–Market 
(MTM) evaluations, and 
stop–loss limits, to manage 
risk effectively.
VaR Calculation
VaR is calculated using 
a historical simulation at 
a 99% confidence level 
over a one–day holding 
period, based on a 250–day 
horizon, and bolstered by 
continuous back testing and 
stress testing.
This ensures a proactive 
and resilient approach to 
managing market risk aligned 
with the Bank’s risk appetite. 
Increase
No Change
189

Governance
Capital Linkage
SDG Impacted
Risk Status
Mitigation Measures
Liquidity refers to a bank’s ability to 
finance asset growth and fulfil expected 
and unexpected cash and collateral 
obligations at a reasonable cost. Liquidity 
risk arises when the bank cannot meet 
these obligations without compromising 
its financial condition.
Liquidity Risk
Comprehensive 
Framework
The Bank’s Asset Liability 
Management (ALM) Policy 
outlines a robust liquidity 
risk management system, 
supported by additional 
policies for intraday 
liquidity, stress testing, 
contingency funding, and 
branch–level liquidity.
Monitoring & Oversight
Liquidity profiles are 
reviewed through static 
and dynamic gap analyses, 
key ratios, and stress tests, 
with ongoing supervision 
by the ALCO and RMC.
KEY MATERIAL RISKS 
Regulatory Adherence
The Bank aligns with RBI 
guidelines and Basel III 
requirements such as 
the Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio (LCR) and Net 
Stable Funding Ratio 
(NSFR), maintaining levels 
consistent with regulations 
and the Bank’s risk appetite.
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Risk Status
Mitigation Measures
Information and cyber security risks 
for banks arise from the possibility of 
unauthorised access, manipulation, 
or theft of sensitive data and assets. 
Breaches, whether through hacking, 
phishing, or malware, can disrupt 
services, compromise customer 
information, and erode trust in the 
bank’s operations. Strong security 
measures, such as encryption, multi–
factor authentication, and regular audits, 
protect the institution and its customers 
from evolving cyber threats.
Information and 
Cyber Security Risks
Robust Framework and 
Governance  
The Bank has implemented 
a comprehensive 
Information and Cyber 
Security program governed 
by the Information System 
Security Committee. 
Policies and standards are 
aligned with best practices 
and regulatory guidelines, 
including NIST, ISO 
27001:2013, and PCI DSS, 
that ensure regular threat 
assessments and controls.
Proactive Security 
Measures
Technical and 
administrative controls 
prevent, detect, and 
respond to suspicious 
activities. Prior to 
KEY MATERIAL RISKS 
deploying IT infrastructure 
or applications, the Bank 
conducts thorough 
security checks, 
vulnerability assessments, 
and penetration tests.
Defence–in–Depth and 24x7 
Monitoring 
A multi–layered security 
approach, supported by round–
the–clock Security Operation 
Centres (SOC), continuously 
monitors digital assets. 
The Bank collaborates with 
regulatory bodies and industry 
stakeholders to strengthen its 
cyber defence and implement 
recommended measures.
Increase
No Change
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
190

Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Climate risk broadly fall into two categories: 
Transition Risks
These arise from shifts in policy, regulation, 
technology, or consumer preferences as the 
world moves toward a low–carbon future.
Physical Risks
This category includes both chronic 
and acute impacts of climate change. 
Chronic risks involve long–term changes 
in temperature, precipitation patterns, 
agricultural productivity, and sea levels, 
whereas acute risks encompass more 
immediate events, such as heat waves, 
floods, cyclones, and wildfires.
Climate Risk
Global Framework 
Alignment and Climate 
Risk Integration  
The Bank publishes TCFD–
aligned disclosures in 
accordance with the RBI’s 
guidelines, recognising 
that climate change affects 
credit, operational, market, 
reputational, and liquidity 
risks. We now monitor 
physical and transition risk 
for key business verticals 
under the purview of 
the ESG Committee, and 
continue to focus on 
developing capability for 
climate scenario analysis 
and stress testing in line 
with regulatory guidance. 
Robust Governance and 
Strategic Oversight
Since 2021, the ESG 
Committee has guided 
the Bank’s approach to 
climate–related and ESG 
risks. Focusing on high–
transition–risk sectors 
and natural hazards, we 
strengthen enterprise–wide 
risk management and foster 
resilience across our retail, 
rural, and SME portfolios.
Building Capabilities and 
Fostering a Climate–
conscious Culture
Our Climate Risk 
Dashboards capture 
key risk metrics, while a 
Bank–wide ESG e–module 
and specialised training 
embed climate awareness. 
Collaborating with industry 
bodies and regulators, 
we seek to safeguard our 
operations and further our 
sustainability objectives.
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
Operational risks can arise from 
inadequate or missing controls within 
internal processes, personnel, and 
systems, as well as from external events 
or a combination of these factors.
Operational Risk
Comprehensive ORM Policy 
and Governance
A structured Operational 
Risk Management (ORM) 
Policy guides proactive risk 
identification, assessment, 
mitigation, and monitoring, 
reinforced by a clear 
governance framework.
Thorough Evaluation and 
Committee Oversight
All new products, processes, 
and changes undergo 
rigorous risk assessment 
by the Operational Risk 
team, supported by Product/
Change Management 
Committees and the 
Outsourcing Committee. 
The Information System 
Security Committee oversees 
operational risk within 
information systems.
Measurement System and 
Continuous Enhancement
A dedicated Operational 
Risk Measurement System 
documents, assesses, and 
periodically reviews risks 
and controls across all 
business lines.
Risk management
Risk Status
Risk Status
Mitigation Measures
Mitigation Measures
KEY MATERIAL RISKS 
KEY MATERIAL RISKS 
Increase
No Change
191

Governance
Material Issues Linkage
An efficient cyber security 
governance and a protective 
architecture are more critical than 
ever in today’s rapidly advancing 
digital landscape. Our adherence to 
ISO 27001 and PCI–DSS standards, 
our ISO 27017 cloud security 
certification, and the newly 
acquired ISO 27018 (Cloud PII Data 
Security) certification demonstrate 
our deep commitment to protecting 
customers’ personal information. 
A robust defence–in–depth approach, 
coupled with 24x7 monitoring from 
our Security Operations Centre 
(SOC), shields our critical assets 
from unauthorised access, hacking 
attempts, and data loss. Aligned with 
industry best practices and regulatory 
guidelines, we reinforce customer 
confidence across every banking 
channel, demonstrating how openness 
and security coexist seamlessly.
CYBER SECURIT Y AND DATA PRIVACY
Safeguarding customer confidence 
with uncompromising security
Capital Linkage
SDG Impacted
Our Cyber Security and 
Data Privacy Framework 
is critical in upholding 
customer trust and 
assuring them that their 
personal and financial 
information are handled 
responsibly. Our goal is to 
create secure, seamless 
and trusted banking 
experiences that give 
customers the freedom to 
engage with us confidently, 
knowing that behind every 
open interaction is a deeply 
secure foundation.
M1
M5
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
192

The Bank has a comprehensive 
Information and Cyber Security 
Policy and has invested in robust 
technical and administrative controls 
to prevent, detect, and respond 
to suspicious activity. We conduct 
thorough assessments before 
introducing new systems or services, 
encompassing application security 
and vulnerability checks, penetration 
testing, and architecture reviews. 
We also work closely with regulatory 
bodies and continuously invest in 
vendor risk management and security 
awareness programs for outsourced 
employees. We have also subscribed 
to Commercial Threat Intelligence 
Cyber Security Governance Framework 
The Bank has a robust corporate 
governance framework for information 
and cyber security. The Information 
System Security Committee (ISSC), 
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, 
meets quarterly to review the evolving 
cyber threat landscape and validate 
the Bank’s cyber security controls. 
The Information Technology and 
Digital Strategy Committee and the 
Risk Management Committee provide 
oversight of information and cyber 
security related initiatives, ensuring 
they remain aligned with regulatory 
directives and benchmarked against 
industry best practices.
Feeds and receive inputs from various 
regulatory bodies, such as the Reserve 
Bank of India – Cyber Security and 
Information Technology Examination 
(RBI–CSITE) and the National Critical 
Information Infrastructure Protection 
Centre (NCIIPC). 
We extend a powerful security 
umbrella across Internet Banking, 
Mobile Banking, and Credit Cards by 
combining multifactor authentication, 
real–time fraud monitoring, and other 
best practices. We protect customer 
data through vigilant detection and 
rapid response to threats.
Board Committees
Executive Committees
Information Technology &  
Digital Strategy Committee 
Information System 
Security Committee
Risk Management  
Committee
Cyber security and data privacy
Oversee
Information and cyber security initiatives to assess the threat landscape and ensure that controls  
are commensurate with the cyber risks
193

Measures for Proactive Detection of Cyber Threats
Governance
Data Privacy: Securing 
Trust, Dil Se
Data privacy is integral to the Bank’s 
mission to become India’s most 
valuable bank and ensure that it can 
uphold its promise of ‘Har raah dil se 
open’. Recognising the importance of 
safeguarding personal information, 
we implement rigorous processes and 
technology frameworks to protect 
customer data.
Our Approach to Data Protection 
	»
Structured Data Management 
We diligently classify data into 
Personally Identifiable Information 
(PII), Sensitive Personal Data 
Identification (SPDI), and non–
PII/SPDI categories, conducting 
comprehensive privacy impact 
assessments for every initiative. 
Privileged identity and access 
management solutions strengthen 
data access security, with Aadhaar 
data secured in a dedicated vault in 
full compliance with RBI guidelines.
	»
Comprehensive Privacy Controls  
The Bank has implemented robust 
privacy measures, encompassing 
user access management, network 
security, secure configurations 
and database security. These 
foundational measures reinforce 
operational resilience and 
customer confidence.
	»
Privacy in Payments Innovation 
The Bank maintains a leading 
position with about 30% of the 
market share in the evolving 
landscape of UPI payments. Our 
commitment to seamless and 
secure customer experiences is 
evident through innovations such  
as UPI–enabled ATM services, 
RuPay Credit Cards on UPI, and 
global payment capabilities. Our 
robust IT infrastructure ensures 
reliability and minimal technical 
disruptions, solidifying our position 
as a trusted payments partner.
	»
API Ecosystem and Data Security 
Our API–driven ecosystem 
continues to expand, with more 
than 850 partners and 5,000 
developers actively engaging 
through our cloud–based 
integration platform and sandbox 
environment. Over 460 APIs have 
been published, enabling strategic 
collaborations with major partners 
like Flipkart, Google, and Airtel. 
The API Security Guard Rails Policy 
provides stringent, controlled, 
and monitored data access across 
public, private and enterprise APIs.
	»
Combining a Zero–Trust 
architecture with micro–
segmentation to minimise the 
potential for cyber–attacks and to 
ensure secure remote access
	»
A well–defined security 
framework ensures end–to–end 
compliance, continuous monitoring, 
and consistent adherence to 
global standards
	»
Encryption, digital rights 
management, and data 
classification are integrated into the 
Bank’s architecture and standard 
operating procedures (SOPs), 
ensuring that privacy is an integral 
part of every process 
	»
Sophisticated endpoint controls 
and Data Loss Prevention (DLP) 
systems help identify and prevent 
unauthorised data exposures
	»
Round–the–clock vigilance detects 
malicious activities early, supported 
by real–time threat intelligence to  
pre–empt potential breaches
	»
Enhanced monitoring detects 
unauthorised access and potential 
data leaks, while secure mobile 
capabilities facilitate remote work 
aligned with sustainability goals
	»
Federated identity management 
and network access controls ensure 
that only authorised users can access 
sensitive data and systems
	»
The Security Operation Centre 
collaborates closely with regulatory 
bodies, leveraging real–time insights 
to strengthen cyber defence across 
all operations
	»
We ensure our applications  
and on–premises tools  
(e.g. patch management and file 
integrity monitoring) are fortified 
against threats
	»
Encryption and compliance 
controls underpin the Bank’s 
Cloud–First strategy, while 
rigorous evaluations of SaaS 
and PaaS providers guarantee 
alignment with regulatory and 
security benchmarks
	»
The Bank has deployed Microsoft 
Defender XDR for real–time 
threat detection and response; 
Microsoft Defender (Endpoint) 
utilises machine learning and 
artificial intelligence to monitor 
threats continuously
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
194

Our Focus 
Areas
The Bank is dedicated to 
achieving technological 
excellence and 
innovation within a 
secure, resilient, and 
efficient banking system
Empowering 
customers and 
employees 
through reimagined 
journeys
Enhancing 
operational 
efficiency 
through innovative  
solutions
Driving cost  
efficiency  
and maximising  
return  
on investment
Ensuring the 
highest standards 
of security and 
reliability across 
IT operations
	»
Personalised Customer  
Experiences  
The Bank’s commitment to 
personalisation fosters deeper 
customer engagement through 
tailored experiences, dynamic 
dashboards, gamified interactions, 
smart expense forecasting, and 
virtual financial assistants. These 
initiatives operate under rigorous 
privacy standards, ensuring secure 
and trusted customer interactions.
	»
Strengthening 
Operational Resiliency  
Operational resiliency remains 
central to our strategy, supported 
by automated disaster recovery 
processes, advanced testing 
methodologies, and real–time 
incident management. Our 
ongoing efforts to integrate Site 
Reliability Engineering (SRE) 
practices and AI–driven operational 
analytics will further enhance 
infrastructure stability and rapid 
incident resolution.
	»
Enterprise Architecture and 
Cloud Leadership  
Our forward–looking approach to 
enterprise architecture and cloud 
capabilities is exemplified by the 
successful deployment of Data 
Lakehouse, utilising Iceberg on 
Cloud. With robust open–source 
governance frameworks and 
mature cloud infrastructure, we 
ensure comprehensive governance, 
enhanced resiliency, strong 
security, real–time monitoring, 
and effective incident response. 
Integrating Machine Learning (ML) 
operations into our Data Lakehouse 
will reinforce our commitment to 
secure, transparent, and trusted 
data usage.
Developing and 
maintaining 
advanced digital 
and data  
capabilities
Cyber security and data privacy
195

Governance
Participation in Key Global Platforms
World Economic Forum’s (WEF) Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders
Axis Bank is a proud member of the 
Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders 
of the World Economic Forum and 
actively engages in the Alliance’s 
research and policy advocacy 
initiatives. The Alliance is currently 
focusing on three key thematic areas 
to drive action: 
	»
Decarbonising materials and the 
supply chain 
	»
Catalysing India’s 
hydrogen economy 
	»
Developing a business model 
to protect old forests and 
promote afforestation
The Bank actively contributed as 
part of the Steering Committee in 
the shaping of a joint industry survey 
conducted by the Confederation 
of Indian Industry (CII) and WEF 
on national climate solutions. This 
survey aims to inform a forthcoming 
whitepaper, offering insights and 
recommendations to facilitate 
increased private sector investments 
in natural climate solutions. The 
Bank actively participates in other 
initiatives under the Alliance, 
focusing on green hydrogen and 
environmental conservation.
THOUGHT LE ADERSHIP AND POLICY ADVOC ACY
Translating ideas into  
impactful change
Material Issues Linkage
M14
Capital Linkage
SDGs Impacted
We drive conversations 
that lead the way to  
long–term change. 
Through proactive 
thought leadership, 
strategic policy 
engagement, and global 
collaboration, we are 
shaping a future–ready, 
inclusive financial 
ecosystem equipped to 
address the challenges of 
tomorrow.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
196

Thought leadership and policy advocacy
Government Consultations
Industry Collaboration and Policy Inputs
CII Engagements
Media and Public Thought 
Leadership
Case Studies and Publications
Strategic Papers and 
Recommendations
FICCI Committee Meetings
	»
Feedback on Digital Personal 
Data Protection (DPDP) Act 
– April & February 2024 – 
Damini Marwah
	»
Credit Card policy inputs – 
May 2024 & paper finalised in 
July 2024 – Sanjeev Moghe
	»
Inputs on Regulatory 
Compliance Review – January 
2025 – Bimal Bhattacharyya
	»
Submissions on Bank–Fintech 
Partnerships – July 2024 
– Sameer Shetty (including 
meeting with RBI Fintech ED)
	»
Review of export–import 
regulations – September 2024 
– Neeraj Gambhir
	»
Contribution to Digital 
Lending Framework – July 
2024 – Sameer Shetty
	»
Pre– and Post–Union 
Budget 2023–24 inputs 
– July & February 2025 – 
Amitabh Chaudhry
	»
Thought Leadership 
Paper: Preparing for Viksit 
Bharat – August 2024 – 
Amitabh Chaudhry
	»
Submission to CII National 
Banking Committee – 
January 2025 – Rajiv Anand
	»
Inputs on climate finance 
terminology – October 2024 
– Abhejit Agarwal
Inputs to Department of 
Commerce on:
	»
Classifying Export Finance 
as PSL
	»
Setting up an International 
Arbitration Centre in 
GIFT City
	»
Enabling video KYC for NRIs 
& Special Rupee Vostro 
Accounts – November 2024
	»
Axis Bank – Redis 
Mobile Banking  
Case Study – June 2024 –  
Avinash Raghavendra
	»
Sustainable Agriculture Project 
Case Studies featured in 
FICCI–Yes Bank Compendium 
– October & November 2024 
(Agriculture Based  
Finance – ABF)
	»
CNBC TV18 Podcasts:  
‘AI Dialogues’ – April 2024  
– Avinash Raghavendra 
	»
CNBC TV18 Podcasts:  
‘AI Dialogues’ – August 2024  
– Anoop Manohar 
	»
WEF Blog: Investing in  
People – December 2024  
– Amitabh Chaudhry
	»
World CX Summit 2024  
Compendium – Article on  
Future of Customer  
Experience – August 2024  
– Shruthi Bopaiah
	»
Draft Paper: Agenda for the 
New Government – May 2024  
– Neelkanth Mishra
	»
Pre–budget recommendations 
& quote – July 2024  
– Amitabh Chaudhry
	»
Feedback on PM 
Internship Yojana Draft – 
September 2024  
– Rajkamal Vempati
	»
Working Groups:
	
−Cyber security 
Strengthening
	
−Aligning PSL Framework  
to National Priorities
197

Governance
Representation on Industry Platforms in Fiscal 2025
Amitabh Chaudhry  
(MD&CEO)
	»
Chairman of the FICCI National 
Banking Committee
	»
Author/Contributor with the World 
Economic Forum
	»
Member of the CII Davos Steering Committee
Rajiv Anand  
(Deputy Managing Director)
	»
Member of CII National Committee on Banking
	»
Chair of the Working Group on Payment 
Aggregators under the aegis of CII 
Banking Committee
	»
Member of the CII Regulatory Reforms 
Working Group (Agenda Initiative)
	»
Member of the CII Working Groups – Cyber 
Security and PSL
Arjun Chowdhry  
(Group Executive – Affluent Banking, Retail 
Lending, NRI, Cards & Payments)
	»
Member of the Visa Asia–Pacific 
Client Council
	»
Member of the CII Joint Working Group 
of India–Australia CEO’s Forum
Damini Marwah  
(President – Legal and Chief Ethics Officer)
	»
Member of ASSOCHAM Steering 
Committee on Insolvency & Bankruptcy 
Code and Valuation
	»
Member of the CII National Committee on 
Regulatory Affairs
	»
Member of the CII Taskforce on 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy
	»
Member of the FICCI Taskforce on DPDP 
Act 2024
Neeraj Gambhir  
(Group Executive – Treasury  
& Markets and Wholesale Banking Products)
	»
Member of FICCI National Banking Committee
	»
Member of Global Debt Market Initiatives
	»
Board Member at FIMMDA (International)
	»
Member of Treasury and Global Markets, RBI 
Bimal Bhattacharyya 
(President & Group Chief Audit Executive)
	»
Member of the CII Working Group on 
Regulatory Reforms
Rajkamal Vempati  
(President – Human Resources)
	»
Member of the Advisory Board of the 
Centre of Gender Equality and Inclusive 
Leadership, XLRI
	»
Member of CII National HR Council
	»
Co–Chair of FICCI HR Committee
Sameer Shetty  
(Group Executive – Digital Business and 
Transformation)
	»
Member of the FICCI Working Group on 
Banks–Fintech Partnership under the aegis 
of FICCI National Banking Committee
	»
Member of the Jury of Finacle–Infosys 
Innovation Awards
	»
Member of CII National Committee 
on FinTech
	»
Member of the Jury of FICCI 
Fintech Awards
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
198

Thought leadership and policy advocacy
Representation on Industry Platforms in Fiscal 2025
Ashish RS Sharma  
(Senior Vice President – Financial Crime Intelligence)
	»
Member (Industry Expert), Board of Studies, 
SIES College
Nitin Anand  
(Senior Vice President – MNC,  
NEG & FS Group)
	»
Member of the FICCI LAC Regional Council
Munish Sharda  
(Executive Director – Bharat Banking)
	»
Member of the ICC India Working Group 
on Digitalisation and FinTechs
Sanjeev Moghe  
(President – Cards)
	»
Member of the FICCI Sub–working Group 
on Credit Card issues
Anoop Manohar  
(Chief Marketing Officer)
	»
Member of ASSOCHAM National Branding 
and Marketing Council
	»
Jury Member of the Advisory Board of CX 
India Summit and Awards
	»
Jury Member of the ET BrandEquity Awards
Piyali Reddy  
(Senior Vice President & Head – Corporate 
Communications)
	»
Jury Member of the Haymarkets Asia PR and 
Comms Awards 2024
Vivek Gupta  
(President – Wholesale Banking Products)
	»
Jury Member of the NPCI–IAMAI Global 
Fintech Awards
	»
Member of the Standing Advisory/Expert 
Committee of IFSC Authority
Dhruvi Shah  
(Executive Trustee and CEO – Axis Bank 
Foundation)
	»
Member of FICCI Task Force on Climate 
Change and Sustainable Agriculture
	»
Member of the CSR Committee of Bombay 
Chamber of Commerce and Industry
	»
Member of the CII Council on Women 
Empowerment and Inclusion
	»
Jury Member of FICCI Agri Startup Awards
Abhejit Agarwal  
(Senior Vice President & Head – 
Sustainability and CSR)
	»
Member of the FICCI Task Force on ESG
	»
Member of the CII Climate Change Council
	»
Member of the CII Net Zero Council
	»
Member of the Advisory Board – Centre 
for Development Policy and Management, 
IIM Udaipur   
Harish Iyer  
(Senior Vice President – Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion)
	»
Member of the Advisory Board of ET 
Global DE&I Alliance
199

Governance
Bank’s Representation Speaker or Panellist at Key Conferences and Seminars during Fiscal 2025
Speaker
Organiser
Event
Topic
Amitabh Chaudhry 
MD & CEO
Future Talent 
Council
Future Talent Summit
The Future of AI, Work, and 
Education
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing 
Director
IBA
IBA–IBFed Conference
Mobilising Climate Finance for 
Sustainable Growth
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing 
Director
India Today 
India Today Smart Money  
Financial Summit
A Changing Landscape: 
Technology & Innovation in 
Financial Services
Rajkamal Vempati 
President –
Human Resources
ET
ET HR World Nextech  
HR summit
HR Tech Trends
Abhejit Agarwal 
Head – Sustainability  
and CSR
ET Edge
Times Now Global Sustainability 
Alliance 3rd Edition of 
Sustainable Organisations 2024
Narratives of Green 
Transformation: Empowering 
Businesses with Innovation and 
Sustainable Technologies
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing 
Director
Climate Bond 
Initiative
India Conference on Climate  
Risks and Sustainable Finance
Seizing Opportunities and 
Mitigating Risks in the Era 
of Climate Crises: How can 
Industry Accelerate Action?
Abhijit Dey
Vice President – DBAT
IDC
India Financial Services Summit
Transformative Potential of 
Connected Finance
Avinash Raghavendra
President – Information 
Technology
Nasdaq
The Dance of Innovation and 
Stability: Banks and Regulatory 
changes in India’s evolving 
Regulatory Landscape
Powering Compliance: 
Leveraging RegTech for Cloud 
and Data Security in the Indian 
Banking Landscape
Harish Iyer 
Senior Vice President –
Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion
ET Now
ET Now Diversity and Inclusion 
Summit
People, Purpose, Pride: The 
Promise of the Pink Economy
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
200

KEY EVENTS AT THE CORPORATE OFFICE 
Thought leadership and policy advocacy
World Economic Forum
₹1.72 crores
IBA
₹75.00 lakhs
FICCI 
₹1.50 lakhs
CII 
₹3.30 lakhs
ASSOCHAM 
₹1.50 lakhs
BCCI 
₹0.75 lakhs
Membership Fees Paid
The details of membership fees paid by the Bank for fiscal 2025*
Abhisaran: Partnership CSO
Abhisaran 2025 saw leaders from 
across the social impact ecosystem 
convening for two energising days at 
our Mumbai corporate office, sparking 
dialogue on the future of philanthropy, 
CSR, and non–profit strategy. With 
a strong focus on collaboration, the 
event championed the power of 
collective action, shared storytelling, 
and cross–sectoral partnerships to 
drive meaningful, scalable change.
Wide Angle Season 9
Dia Mirza, a sustainability champion, 
took the stage at WIDE ANGLE 
Season 9, a thought leadership 
series for employees. She offered a 
thought–provoking perspective on 
environmental responsibility and 
inspired our employees to rethink their 
impact on nature and advised on how 
to embrace responsible change.   
*exclusive of applicable taxes
201

INTERPL AY OF C APITAL S
Capitals not only contribute to other capitals but can also enhance themselves 
through internal reinvestment, development, or transformation. This dynamic 
synergy strengthens our ability to serve stakeholders, adapt, grow inclusively, 
and stay ahead in an evolving financial ecosystem.
From/To capitals
Financial
Manufactured
Intellectual
Human
Social and Relationship
Natural
Financial
Steady capital mobilisation enabled 
investments across physical, digital 
and human capital. Key enablers 
included sustained improvement in 
core operating profit and disciplined 
cost controls.
Capital was deployed to expand our 
branch and ATM footprint across 
693 districts. Strategic investments 
were made in expanding digital and 
rural infrastructure.
Investment in digital transformation 
enhanced core banking systems, CRM, 
analytics, and AI–driven interfaces, 
accelerating innovation and speed–to–
market.
Capital was directed towards scaling our 
learning platforms, talent acquisition, and 
employee wellbeing initiatives, fostering a 
resilient workforce.
CSR investments of ₹427 crores were 
channelled towards furthering livelihoods, 
education, health, financial inclusion, 
environment, sports and humanitarian relief, 
touching over 1 million participants across 
India this fiscal.
Scaling sustainable financing, new green 
capital raising, moving on glide path for 
reducing exposure to coal and thermal 
power, committing to incremental financing 
of Rs 60,000 crores by 2030 in  
wholesale banking.
Manufactured
Deposit mobilisation (↑10% y–o–y) 
and rural advances (↑7%) were 
powered by our extensive physical 
and digital distribution across India.
Over 250 new Bharat Banking 
branches and 13,941 ATMs/CDMs 
ensured deep coverage across 
semi–urban and rural regions.
Integrated platforms such as ‘Open’ 
by Axis and neo expanded access and 
digitised services. Unified systems 
ensured seamless physical and digital 
delivery.
High–touch phygital infrastructure 
supported employee enablement and 
onboarding across roles and locations, 
including 4,000+ branch banking officers.
Bharat–focused infrastructure enabled the 
delivery of high–quality services – from 
government partnerships (e.g. Smart Cities) 
to Direct Benefit Transfer.
Green branches and energy–efficient 
infrastructure contributed to lower 
emissions, while water management facilities 
enhanced sustainability outcomes.
Intellectual
The Bank’s ‘Open’ by Axis now 
contributes ~6% to the overall 
franchise. In fiscal 2025, platforms 
like Adi, ‘Siddhi’, and neo accelerated 
productivity, enhanced decision–
making, and strengthened CX design 
platforms.
Proprietary platforms supported 
customer journeys across both 
retail and wholesale banking. Tech 
upgrades enabled end–to–end 
digitisation.
135+ open APIs, 850+ fintech 
partnerships, and 460+ live integrations 
helped create a vibrant digital 
ecosystem.
Learning platforms like Open Learning 
Lab and Capability Factories enhanced 
employee skilling across ESG, tech, and 
frontline roles.
Our CX design platforms (Kaleidoscope) and 
idea generation initiatives (Ignite) enabled 
continuous service improvement and 
innovation.
Proprietary digital tools enabled smart energy 
management, emissions tracking, and ESG 
portfolio evaluation across operations
Human
Workforce productivity increased, 
with profit per employee of ₹0.25 
crores. Engagement and diversity 
metrics improved, with 27.7% women 
representation.
Investments in employee amenities, 
flexible workspaces and safety 
protocols enabled a future–ready 
workplace.
Structured capability–building programs 
(1,000 Change Leaders, Thrive) 
enhanced managerial and leadership 
capabilities across the Bank.
6 million+ learning hours clocked; 97% 
employees active on the Open Learning 
Lab. Skill Factories and academies 
developed domain–specific talent.
Through initiatives like Axis Cares and 
‘Siddhi’, employees engaged in CSR, DE&I, 
and financial inclusion drives, enhancing 
organisational culture.
Training on climate action, health & safety, 
and ESG literacy empowered employees to 
contribute to responsible banking goals.
Social and 
Relationship
Strong customer franchise across 
Retail, Bharat, and Wholesale 
segments drove fee income (↑11%) 
and sustained market share across 
UPI, cards and MSME.
Our network of 28,000+ CSCs and 
2,736 Bharat branches enabled 
last–mile access and improved 
customer service across India.
Customer–centric innovations like 
‘Benefits Dashboard’, Digital Unboxing, 
and ‘Siddhi’ drove ~80% digital 
activation in cards.
Axis Dil Se and Foundation programs built 
trust with 2 million+ rural families. Pride 
by Axis scored high on engagement.
Community programs across livelihoods, 
education, and inclusion scaled up 
significantly; Mission 4 Million launched in 
fiscal 2025.
Social programs promoted climate–resilient 
livelihoods (e.g. solar irrigation, watershed 
management) and aligned with national 
climate goals.
Natural
Our ESG–aligned portfolio includes 
green bonds, EV loans and ₹48,412 
crores in cumulative ESG sanctions by 
fiscal 2025 since fiscal 2022.
Four large offices now run entirely 
on renewable energy; ~3.27 
million trees planted under habitat 
restoration commitments.
Building capability for climate 
stress testing and scenario analysis, 
proprietary ESG rating tool, TCFD–
aligned disclosures, and ESG lending 
policy integrated across  
enterprise systems.
Enhanced focus on wellness, occupational 
health, and climate–related training 
reinforced environmental awareness.
ESG governance embedded into operations 
with a Board–level ESG Committee; Bank–
wide initiatives reinforced environmental 
stewardship.
~3.27 million trees planted since 2022 
(including target of 2 million tree plantations, 
Miyawaki plantations and other tree 
plantation programs); Scope 1–2–3 emission 
reductions aligned with glide path; smart 
water, paper and energy use reduced 
footprint.
Interplay of capitals
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
202
203

Awards & Recognitions
Honours that inspire us
Future of Trust
Derivatives House  
of the Year
Bank of the Year 
Award
Most Effective Credit/Debit 
Card Marketing Campaign
Reinvention Awards 2025 
APAC Innovator of the Year
Best Bank for Talent and Workforce
ICAI Silver Shield for 
Excellence in Financial 
Reporting for fiscal 2024
Domestic Trade Finance Bank 
of the Year Digital Tx Bank of 
the Year (Project neo)
Sustainable Agriculture Award 
2024 Sustainable Farmer 
Income Enhancement in 2023
Best Digital Bank of the Year
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
204

Statutory reports  	
	
	
	
	
	
206	 Board’s report 
234	 Management’s discussion and analysis 
277	 Corporate governance 
324	 Business responsibility and sustainability report
Financial statements
325 Independent auditor’s report – Standalone financial statements
332 Standalone financial statements
431 Independent auditor’s report – Consolidated financial statements
442 Consolidated financial statements
500	 Form AOC–1
502	 Basel III disclosures
205

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
206
Statutory reports
Dear Members,
Your Board of Directors (the “Board”) is pleased to present its 31st Board’s report on the performance of Axis Bank Limited 
(the “Bank”) together with the audited financial statements for fiscal 2025.
Financial Performance and State of the Bank’s Affairs
The Bank provides a complete suite of banking products and financial services covering retail banking, wholesale banking 
and treasury operations and is the third largest private sector bank in India in terms of total assets, based on public filings of 
private sector banks. The Bank’s total assets increased from `1,477,209 crores as at 31 March, 2024 to `1,609,930 crores 
as at 31 March, 2025. Furthermore, total deposits increased from `1,068,641 crores as at 31 March, 2024 to `1,172,952 
crores as at 31 March, 2025 and total advances increased from `965,068 crores as at 31 March, 2024 to `1,040,811 crores 
as at 31 March, 2025.
Operating revenue increased by 10% year-on-year (“Y-o-Y”) to `79,605 crores in fiscal 2025. Net Interest Income (“NII”) 
increased 9% to `54,348 crores in fiscal 2025. Non-interest income consisting of fee, trading and other income increased 
by 13% to `25,257 crores in fiscal 2025. Operating expenses grew 6% to `37,500 crores in fiscal 2025. As a result, the 
operating profit grew by 13% to `42,105 crores. Provisions and contingencies increased by 91% to `7,759 crores in fiscal 
2025. Net profit grew by 6% to `26,373 crores in fiscal 2025.
The financial highlights (standalone) for the year under review, are presented below:
	
(` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Growth
Balance sheet:
Deposits
1,172,952
1,068,641
10%
Savings bank deposits
311,389
302,132
3%
Current account deposits
166,799
157,268
6%
Term deposits
694,764
609,241
14%
Advances
1,040,811
965,068
8%
Retail advances
622,897
583,265
7%
Non-retail advances
417,914
381,803
9%
Total assets / liabilities
1,609,930
1,477,209
9%
Profit & loss account:
Net interest income
54,348
49,894
9%
Other income
25,257
22,442
13%
Fee income
22,504
20,257
11%
Trading profit1
2,059
1,731
19%
Miscellaneous income
694
454
53%
Operating expenses
37,500
35,213
6%
Operating profit
42,105
37,123
13%
Provisions and contingencies (other than tax)
7,759
4,063
91%
Profit before tax
34,346
33,060
4%
Provision for tax
7,973
8,199
(3%)
Board’s report

207
Board’s report
	
(` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Growth
Net profit
26,373
24,861
6%
Balance in profit and loss account brought forward from previous year
60,254
44,145
-
Amount available for appropriation
86,627
69,006
-
Appropriations
Transfer to statutory reserve
6,593
6,215
-
Transfer to capital reserve
214
140
-
Transfer to investment reserve
-
242
-
Transfer to special reserve
1,025
968
-
Transfer to investment fluctuation reserve
248
879
-
Dividend paid
309
308
-
Surplus carried over to balance sheet
78,238
60,254
-
1Excluding merchant exchange profit.
Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators
2024-25
2023-24
Interest income as a % of working funds1
8.10
8.05
Non-interest income as a % of working funds1
1.67
1.65
Net interest margin (%)
3.98
4.07
Return on average net worth (%)
16.52
18.86
Operating profit as a % of working funds1
2.78
2.73
Return on average assets (%)
1.74
1.83
Profit per employee2 (` in lacs)
25.45
25.29
Business (Deposits less inter-bank deposits + advances) per employee2 (₹ in crores)
20.88
20.19
Net non-performing assets as a % of net customer assets3
0.33
0.31
1 Working funds represent average total assets.
2 Productivity ratios are based on average number of employees for the year.
3 Customer assets include advances and credit substitutes.
Previous fiscal year’s figures have been re-grouped, wherever necessary.
Financial Performance of the Group
Subsidiaries of the Bank continued to deliver steady performance. The domestic subsidiaries, collectively, reported a net 
profit of `1,768 crores in fiscal 2025. This translates into a return on investment of 46%. Consolidated net profit of the group 
for fiscal 2025 stood at `28,055 crores, growing 6% Y-o-Y. Consolidated return on equity for fiscal 2025 stood at 16.89%, 
with subsidiaries contributing 37 bps.
Divergence in Asset Classification and Provisioning for NPAs
In terms of Reserve Bank of India (the “RBI”) guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergences in asset classification 
and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements. 
The disclosure is required if either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for NPAs 
assessed by RBI exceeds 5% of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period; and (b) the 
additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5% of the published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period.
Based on the above, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is required with respect to 
RBI’s annual supervisory process for fiscal 2024.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
208
Statutory reports
Dividend
In accordance with Regulation 43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”), the Bank has formulated and adopted a 
Dividend Distribution Policy, which was reviewed by the Board. The said policy is available on the website of the Bank at 
https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance. The Bank has been in compliance with its Dividend 
Distribution Policy during the past three fiscal years.
In view of the overall performance of the Bank, while retaining capital to support future growth and in line with the Dividend 
Distribution Policy, the Board at its meeting held on 24 April, 2025, recommended a final dividend of `1/- per equity share 
of `2/- each fully paid (i.e., 50% of the face value), subject to the approval of members at the ensuing 31st Annual General 
Meeting (the “AGM”). Upon approval, and in compliance to regulatory guidelines, the dividend will be paid to the members 
whose names appear in the register of members of the Bank and in the statement of beneficiary position furnished by the 
National Securities Depository Limited and the Central Depository Services (India) Limited as on the record date i.e., Friday, 
4 July, 2025. The total dividend payout will be approximately `309 crores resulting in a payout of 1.17% of the standalone 
profit after tax of the Bank. Additional shares issued by the Bank pursuant to exercise of stock options / stock units, until the 
record date shall also be eligible for such proposed dividend. The total dividend payout shall stand modified accordingly. In 
terms of the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, dividend income is taxable in the hands of the members, and therefore 
will be subject to deduction of applicable tax.
In terms of Accounting Standard (“AS”) - 4 ‘Contingencies and Events Occurring After the Balance Sheet Date’ as notified by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (the “MCA”) under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) read together with 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, such proposed dividend has 
not been recognised as a liability as on 31 March, 2025.
Integrated Annual Report
In terms of SEBI circular dated 6 February, 2017, the Bank had voluntarily published its first Integrated Annual Report for 
fiscal 2024, which included both financial and non-financial information and was based on the International Integrated 
Reporting Framework (“IIRC”) and SEBI’s guidelines on Integrated reporting. For fiscal 2025, the Bank continues to 
voluntarily publish the Integrated Annual Report. This report covers aspects such as organisation’s strategy, governance 
framework, performance, risk management and prospects of value creation based on the six forms of capitals viz., financial 
capital, intellectual capital, manufactured capital, human capital, social and relationship capital, and natural capital.
Capital Structure
Share Capital
During fiscal 2025, the Bank issued and allotted 10,798,691 equity shares of `2/- each, pursuant to exercise of stock 
options / stock units by the Whole-Time Directors / employees of the Bank and of its subsidiary companies, under the 
Bank’s Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2000-01 and Employee Stock Unit Scheme, 2022.
Consequent to the above, the total issued and paid-up equity share capital of the Bank increased by `2.16 crores to `619.47 
crores as on 31 March, 2025, vis-à-vis `617.31 crores, as on 31 March, 2024. The equity shares issued under the above 
schemes rank pari-passu with the existing equity shares of the Bank.
Apart from the above, the Bank did not raise any additional equity share capital during the year.
Debt Instruments
On 5 September, 2024, the Bank issued and allotted 3,92,500 fully paid, senior, rated, listed, unsecured, taxable, redeemable, 
long term non-convertible debentures (Series–8) of face value of `100,000 each, aggregating to `3,925 crores, at a coupon 
rate of 7.45% per annum on a private placement basis for enhancing long term resources for funding infrastructure and 
affordable housing. The aforesaid debentures shall be redeemed at par on maturity on 5 September, 2034.
The Audit Committee of the Board (the “ACB”) at its meeting held on 17 October, 2024, has reviewed and confirmed that 
the Bank has utilised the said funds for the above-mentioned purposes. 
On 5 December, 2024, the Bank redeemed senior unsecured redeemable non-convertible debentures amounting to `5,705 
crores. Further, on 12 February, 2025, the Bank also redeemed unsecured redeemable non-convertible fully paid up Basel III 
compliant tier 2 bonds in the nature of debentures for inclusion in tier 2 capital (bonds) amounting to `850 crores.

209
Board’s report
Capital Adequacy Ratio
The Bank’s overall Capital Adequacy Ratio (“CAR”) under Basel III stood at 17.07% at the end of fiscal 2025, well above 
the benchmark requirement of 11.50% stipulated by the RBI. Of this, the Common Equity Tier I (“CET I”) CAR was 14.67% 
(against minimum regulatory requirement of 8.00%) and Tier I CAR was 15.07% (against minimum regulatory requirement of 
9.50%). As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s Tier II CAR under Basel III stood at 2.00%.
Ratings of various Debt Instruments
The details of credit ratings obtained by the Bank along with any revisions thereto, if any, during fiscal 2025, for all the debt 
instruments outstanding as on 31 March, 2025, are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, forming part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates
Details of subsidiary and associate companies as on 31 March, 2025 are tabulated below:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Company
Subsidiary/
Associate
Business Activity
Percentage stake held 
by the group
1.
Axis Capital Limited
Subsidiary
Business of intermediation such as investment 
banking, capital market advisory, private equity 
advisory, M&A advisory and institutional equities.
100
2.
Axis Finance Limited
Subsidiary
Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) offering 
loans to corporates, MSME and retail customers.
100
3.
Axis Securities Limited
Subsidiary
Retail broking services.
100
4.
Axis Trustee Services 
Limited
Subsidiary
Trusteeship activities and agency & administration 
services.
100
5.
Freecharge Payment 
Technologies Private 
Limited
Subsidiary
Merchant acquiring services, payment aggregation 
services, payment support services, and business 
correspondent to a bank / financial institution.
100
6.
Axis UK Limited1
Subsidiary
-
100
7.
Freecharge Business 
and Technology Services 
Limited
Subsidiary
Business correspondent and technological service 
provider to the Bank.
100
8.
Axis Capital USA, LLC
Step 
down 
subsidiary
Services relating to equity capital market, stock 
broking to institutional investors in USA.
100
(held by
Axis Capital Limited)
9.
Axis Asset Management 
Company Limited
Subsidiary
Managing investment portfolios of the scheme(s) 
launched by Axis Mutual Fund, Axis Alternative 
Investment Fund - category II & III and portfolios 
under portfolio management services.
75
10.
Axis Mutual Fund 
Trustee Limited
Subsidiary
Trustee for the mutual fund business.
75
11.
A.Treds Limited
Subsidiary
Facilitating financing of trade receivables.
67
12.
Axis Pension Fund 
Management Limited
Step 
down 
subsidiary
Pension fund management business under the 
National Pension System.
47.27
(Axis Asset Management 
Company Limited-51,
Axis Bank Limited-9.02)
13.
Axis Max Life Insurance 
Limited2
Associate
Life insurance and long-term saving and protection 
products.
19.02
(Axis Bank Limited-16.22
Axis Capital Limited-1.89,
Axis Securities Limited-0.93)
1  The banking license of subsidiary was cancelled by the UK regulators with effect from 24 October, 2024. Subsequently, the name of the Company 
was changed from Axis Bank UK Ltd. to Axis UK Ltd. with effect from 1 November, 2024. The Company is into liquidation since 9 December, 2024.
2  Post receipt of regulatory approvals, Max Life Insurance Company Limited was officially rebranded to Axis Max Life Insurance Limited on 
13 December, 2024.
As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank did not have any joint venture company.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
210
Statutory reports
The financial position and performance of each of the Bank’s key subsidiary companies is given in the Management Discussion 
& Analysis Report, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Consolidated Financial Statements
In accordance with the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, as 
amended, the Bank has prepared its consolidated financial statements, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report. 
The statement in form AOC-1 containing the salient features of the financial statements of the subsidiary companies and 
associate company of the Bank, also forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
In accordance with the third proviso to Section 136(1) of the Act, the Integrated Annual Report of the Bank, containing 
standalone financial statements and the consolidated financial statements and all other documents required to be attached 
thereto is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/
annual-reports.
Further, in accordance with the fourth proviso to the said section, the audited financial statements of each of the subsidiary 
companies are available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-
information/annual-reports. The said financial statements will be available for inspection by the members of the Bank 
and trustees of debenture holders at the registered office of the Bank during business hours on all working days except 
Saturdays, Sundays, bank holidays and National Holidays. Any member interested in obtaining a physical copy of the said 
financial statements can send an email to the Company Secretary of the Bank at shareholders@axisbank.com.
Corporate Governance
The Bank is committed to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance and it constantly benchmarks itself with 
the best national and global governance and disclosure practices.
The Report on Corporate Governance for fiscal 2025 along with general shareholder information forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report. M/s. M M Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 107122W/W100672), Joint 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank, has issued a certificate confirming compliance with the provisions of corporate governance 
by the Bank for fiscal 2025, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs 
C, D and E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, and the same is attached along with the Report on Corporate 
Governance.
The corporate governance framework of the Bank incorporates all the mandatory requirements as prescribed in the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Bank has also adopted the non-mandatory requirements recommended in the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, as detailed in the Report on Corporate Governance.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report
The Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report as stipulated under Regulation 34(2)(e) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Board of Directors
Appointment and Re-appointment of Directors
During fiscal 2025, pursuant to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (the “NRC”) and 
based on performance evaluation, the Board at its meeting held on 17 January, 2025, re-appointed Prof. S. Mahendra 
Dev as an Independent Director of the Bank for a further period of four years, with effect from 14 June, 2025 upto 
13 June, 2029 (both days inclusive), subject to approval of the members of the Bank. He is not liable to retire by rotation. 
The Board was of the opinion that Prof. S. Mahendra Dev has the integrity, expertise and requisite experience, which 
is beneficial to the business interest of the Bank. Further, he is in compliance with the provisions of the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, with respect to enrolling his name in the online databank of 
Independent Directors and qualifying the online proficiency self-assessment test for Independent Directors.

211
Board’s report
The members of the Bank approved the appointment of Pranam Wahi as an Independent Director of the Bank for a period 
of four years with effect from 15  February, 2024 up to 14 February, 2028 (both days inclusive), vide postal ballot on 
10 May, 2024.
Further, the members of the Bank at their 30th AGM held on 26 July, 2024 approved the re-appointment of Meena Ganesh, 
Independent Director with effect from 1 August, 2024 up to 31 July, 2028 (both days inclusive) and re-appointment of 
G. Padmanabhan, Independent Director with effect from 28 October, 2024 up to 27 October, 2028 (both days inclusive).
The members of the Bank also approved the re-appointment of Amitabh Chaudhry as the Managing Director & CEO of 
the Bank with effect from 1 January, 2025 upto 31 December, 2027 (both days inclusive). The RBI vide its letter dated 
24 October, 2024, has also approved the said re-appointment.
Mini Ipe, Non-Executive Director of the Bank (Nominee of Life Insurance Corporation of India, promoter of the Bank), is 
liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM, and being eligible seeks re-appointment. Based on performance evaluation 
and recommendation of the NRC, the Board recommends her re-appointment to the members of the Bank. Resolution in 
respect of re-appointment of Mini Ipe is included in the notice convening the 31st AGM of the Bank.
None of the Bank’s directors are disqualified from being appointed as a director as specified in Section 164 of the Act. All 
Directors have further confirmed that they are not debarred from holding the office of a director under any order from SEBI 
or any other such authority.
Key Managerial Personnel
During the year, there was no change in the Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”). As on the date of this report, following 
are the KMP’s as per Section 203(1) read with Section 2(51) of the Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Name of the KMP
Designation
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Subrat Mohanty
Executive Director
Munish Sharda
Executive Director
Puneet Sharma
Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary and Compliance officer
Selection and Appointment of Directors
The selection and appointment of Directors of the Bank is done in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act, 
rules made thereunder, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the guidelines issued by the RBI and the relevant provisions of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Bank has formulated and adopted various policies with respect to selection and appointment 
of Directors viz., Succession Planning Policy for the Board and Key Officials of the Bank, Policy on fit and proper criteria for 
Directors of the Bank, Board Diversity Policy and Policy on Training of Directors, the details of which are provided in the 
Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Declaration of Independence
All the Independent Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they meet the criteria prescribed for independence under the 
provisions of Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and continue to comply with 
the Code of Conduct laid down under Schedule IV of the Act.
The Board has assessed the veracity of the confirmations submitted by the Independent Directors and thereafter has taken 
the same on record. There has been no change in the circumstances affecting their status as Independent Directors of the 
Bank. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors are competent, experienced, proficient and possess necessary 
expertise and integrity to discharge their duties and functions as Independent Directors. The names of all Independent 
Directors are included in the data bank of Independent Directors maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors are independent of the management.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
212
Statutory reports
Board Performance Evaluation
The Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations provide for evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, individual 
Directors and the Chairperson of a Company.
The Bank has institutionalised the board performance evaluation process. The NRC annually reviews and approves the 
criteria and the mechanism for carrying out the exercise effectively.
The methodology used for the annual board performance evaluation, the outcome, progress made over last year and the 
proposed actions for implementation during fiscal 2026, are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
In terms of Section 134(3)(c) and 134(5) of the Act, the Directors hereby state that:
a)	
the applicable accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of the annual accounts for fiscal 2025.
b)	
accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently, and judgments and estimates made are reasonable and 
prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at 31 March, 2025 and of the profit of the 
Bank for the year ended on that date.
c)	
proper and sufficient care has been taken for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities.
d)	
the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
e)	
adequate internal financial controls to be followed by the Bank have been laid down and they are operating effectively.
f)	
proper and adequate systems have been devised to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and 
these systems are operating effectively.
Meetings of the Board / Committees
The schedule in respect of the meetings of the Board / Committees to be held during the next fiscal year is circulated in 
advance to all the members of the Board.
During fiscal 2025, nine meetings of the Board were held. Details of Board meetings, Board composition, Committee 
meetings and Committee composition are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
Audit Committee of the Board
The composition, role and functions of the ACB is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
During fiscal 2025, the Board has accepted all the recommendations made by the ACB and hence, no further explanation 
towards this is required to be provided, in this Report.
Related Party Transactions
During fiscal 2025, all the related party transactions were entered in the ordinary course of the business of the Bank and 
on an arm’s length basis. Accordingly, there were no transactions entered during the fiscal year that fall under the scope of 
Section 188(1) of the Act, hence, form AOC-2 is not applicable to the Bank.
The details of related party transactions are provided in note no. 2.5 of schedule 18 to the standalone financial statements 
and in note no. 1.8 of schedule 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism
The Bank has formulated and adopted a whistle blower policy and vigil mechanism, details of which have been provided in 
the Report on Corporate Governance which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.

213
Board’s report
Adequacy of Internal Financial Controls related to Financial Statements
The Bank has laid down a system of internal financial controls with reference to its financial statements. The integrity and 
reliability of the internal control systems are achieved through clear policies and procedures, process automation, training 
and development of employees, and an organisation structure that segregates responsibilities. These controls are reviewed 
and tested by the internal audit team to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records and the preparation 
of reliable financial statements.
The internal financial controls of the Bank with respect to the financial statements are adequate and are operating effectively.
Plan and Status of Ind AS implementation
The RBI had issued a circular in February 2016 requiring banks to implement Indian Accounting Standards (“lnd AS”) and 
prepare standalone and consolidated lnd AS financial statements with effect from 1 April, 2018. Banks were also required 
to report the comparative financial statements for fiscal 2018, to be published along with the financial statements for the 
year beginning 1 April, 2018. However, the RBI in its press release issued on 5 April, 2018 deferred the applicability of 
lnd AS by one year (i.e., 1 April, 2019) for scheduled commercial banks. Further, RBI in a circular issued on 22 March, 2019 
has deferred the implementation of lnd AS till further notice.
During fiscal 2017, the Bank had undertaken a preliminary diagnostic analysis of the GAAP differences between Indian GAAP 
vis-à-vis lnd AS. The Bank has also identified and evaluated data gaps, processes and system changes required to implement lnd 
AS. The Bank is in the process of implementing necessary changes in its IT systems wherever required and other processes in a 
phased manner. The Bank is also submitting proforma lnd AS financial statements to RBI on a half-yearly basis.
In line with the RBI guidelines on lnd AS implementation, the Bank has formed a Steering Committee comprising of members 
from the concerned functional areas, headed by the Deputy Managing Director. The Steering Committee reviews the 
proforma Ind AS financial statements and provides guidance on critical areas of implementation on a periodic basis. A 
progress report on the status of lnd AS implementation in the Bank is presented to the ACB and the Board on a quarterly 
basis. Accounting impact on the application of Ind AS shall be recognised as and when it becomes statutorily applicable to 
banks and in the manner so prescribed.
Remuneration Policy
The Bank has formulated and adopted a remuneration policy for its Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
and a remuneration policy for its Managing Director & CEO, Whole-Time Directors, material risk takers, control function 
staff and other employees, in terms of the relevant provisions of Section 178 of the Act, the relevant rules made thereunder, 
the SEBI Listing Regulations and guidelines / circulars issued by the RBI.
The details of the said policies have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report. The said policies are available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/corporate-governance in terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Share Based Employee Benefits
In order to enhance employee motivation, create a retention mechanism, usher in an ‘owner-manager’ culture, align the 
interest of the key executives / employees with that of the shareholders in driving long-term value creation for the Bank, 
achieve greater synergy between the Bank and its subsidiary and associate companies and enable employees to participate 
in the Bank’s long-term growth and financial success, the following share based employee benefit schemes have been 
implemented by the Bank:
•	
Axis Bank Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2000-01 (“ESOS”)
•	
Axis Bank Employee Stock Unit Scheme, 2022 (“ESUS”)
The aforesaid ESOS and ESUS are in compliance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 [the “SEBI (SBEB and SE) Regulations”]. A certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of the Bank confirming that the 
ESOS and ESUS have been implemented in accordance with the SEBI (SBEB and SE) Regulations and in accordance with the 
resolutions passed by the members of the Bank, will be placed at the ensuing AGM.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
214
Statutory reports
Disclosure as mandated under the provisions of Regulation 14 of the SEBI (SBEB and SE) Regulations, is available on the 
website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
The above-mentioned schemes are also available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-
corner/corporate-governance.
Particulars of Employees
The information required pursuant to Section 197 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, in respect of Directors / employees of the Bank, is attached as Annexure 1 to this report.
In terms of Section 197(12) of the Act, read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, a statement showing the names and other particulars of the employees drawing 
remuneration in excess of limits set out in said rules forms part of this report.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 136(1) of the Act, this Integrated Annual Report excluding the aforesaid 
information, is being sent to the members of the Bank and others entitled thereto. The said information is available for 
inspection by the members at the registered office of the Bank during business hours up to the date of the ensuing AGM.
Any member interested in obtaining a copy thereof, may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank at its registered office 
or at shareholders@axisbank.com.
Information under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on prevention of sexual harassment of women at workplace. The Bank has 
complied with the provisions relating to the constitution of internal committee under the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The information relating to complaints received and redressed 
during fiscal 2025 is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Auditors
Statutory Auditors
M/s. M M Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 107122W / W100672) and M/s. KKC & 
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 105146W / W100621) were appointed as the Joint 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank at the 30th AGM, to hold office from the conclusion of the 30th AGM until the conclusion 
of the 33rd AGM, on such terms and conditions, including remuneration, as may be approved by the ACB, subject to the 
approval of the RBI every year.
There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks or disclaimers made in the statutory auditors’ report which forms 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank has framed a policy on ‘Appointment of Statutory Auditors’ and has also 
identified internal set of evaluation criteria for assessing the goodness of fit in terms of experience and eligibility for the audit 
firms including auditor independence.
Secretarial Auditor
The Bank has voluntarily adopted a policy on ‘Appointment of Secretarial Auditors’, duly approved by the Board, on the 
recommendations of the ACB, which, inter alia, provides for the selection, appointment and rotation of Secretarial Auditors, 
which was reviewed by the Board.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act read with the relevant provisions of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board, based 
on the recommendation of the ACB, has appointed M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries (Firm Registration 
No. P1981MH043700), as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank, for a term of five consecutive years, commencing from fiscal 
2026 to fiscal 2030, subject to approval of the members of the Bank at the ensuing AGM. M/s. Bhandari & Associates have 
confirmed their eligibility for appointment as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank under the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Act, Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Auditing Standards on Audit Engagement (“CSAS-1”) issued by The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSl”).

215
Board’s report
The Secretarial audit report for fiscal 2025 is attached as Annexure 2 to this report. There are no qualifications, reservations, 
adverse remarks or disclaimers made by the Secretarial Auditors of the Bank, in their report.
In terms of SEBI master circular dated 11 November, 2024, relating to Annual Secretarial Compliance Report, the Bank has 
appointed M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries, for issuing the aforesaid report for fiscal 2025. The Bank will 
submit the Annual Secretarial Compliance Report to the stock exchanges within the prescribed statutory timelines.
Disclosure under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999
The Bank has obtained a certificate from KKC & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 
105146W/W100621), Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, that it is in compliance with provision of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 with respect to investments made in its consolidated subsidiaries and associate during fiscal 2025.
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has obtained a certificate from 
M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries, confirming that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank have 
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Companies either by the SEBI or the 
MCA or any other statutory / regulatory authorities. The said certificate is attached as Annexure 3 to this report.
Reporting of Frauds by Auditors
Pursuant to Section 143(12) of the Act, and circular issued by the National Financial Reporting Authority dated 26 June, 2023, 
there were 3 instances amounting to `16.62 crores of frauds committed during fiscal 2025, by the officers or employees of 
the Bank and reported by the Statutory Auditors to the ACB.
The details required under Rule 13(4) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 are as under:
Sr.
No.
Nature of the fraud with
description
Approximate
amount
involved
(in ` lakhs)
Remedial actions taken
1.
Cheating & Forgery:
Third party mobile number/ 
email id updated in the 
customer’s 
Corporate 
Internet 
Banking 
by 
submission of fake documents 
with 
forged 
signatures 
and 
thereafter 
multiple 
unauthorised 
transactions/
debits 
undertaken 
from 
customer’s account by staff.
1,298.04
•	
Police complaint filed leading to arrest of some suspects
•	
Stringent disciplinary action taken against the involved staff including 
terminating of service.
•	
Fraud Monitoring Return (“FMR”) reported to the RBI.
•	
Insurance claim has been raised.
•	
Below controls implemented to prevent recurrences of such frauds.
	
-	
Restricting updation of e-mail id, mobile number, authorized 
signatory, mode of operation, Corporate Internet Banking (“CIB”)
user ID addition / deletion to home branch only.
	
-	
Additional due diligence to be conducted of Bearer submitting such 
request.
	
-	
Seeking mobile bill / related evidence to verify the credentials 
(name) in which the mobile number is issued.
	
-	
Restrict CIB access for non-authorized signatories. CIB access to 
be enabled only post on-boarding the proposed user as authorized 
signatory / related party in Bank records.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
216
Statutory reports
Sr.
No.
Nature of the fraud with
description
Approximate
amount
involved
(in ` lakhs)
Remedial actions taken
2.
Misappropriation & Criminal 
Breach of Trust:
Bank staff misappropriated 
customer funds by executing 
multiple 
fraudulent 
debit 
transactions in the Saving and 
OD accounts of the customer 
through mobile app without 
customer’s knowledge.
249.85
•	
Fraudulently updated mobile number has been delinked from the bank 
account of the customer.
•	
Post lodgment of complaint by customer, the staff was arrested by Police. 
As per verbal information received from police authorities, bank staff 
has admitted having misappropriated funds of customer and recovery of 
`25.00 lakh has been made from the accounts of bank staff maintained 
with other banks.
•	
Amount (pertaining to savings account) has been refunded to the 
customer.
•	
FMR reported to the RBI.
•	
Insurance claim has been initiated. Insurance company has appointed 
surveyor for the case. Bank is currently following up with insurance 
company for status.
•	
Feasibility for creating additional check point of telephonic interaction 
by digital lending team for high value Digital OD against FD cases is 
being currently assessed.
3.
Misappropriation & Criminal 
Breach of Trust:
Joint 
custodians 
misappropriated cash from 
the branch vault and executed 
fraudulent 
transactions 
in 
customer accounts.
114.00
•	
The Bank investigated the case and took necessary disciplinary action by 
terminating the involved staff and others responsible for the identified 
lapses.
•	
Additionally, a police complaint was filed in the matter, leading to the 
arrest of the branch staff by authorities.
•	
FMR reported to the RBI. Insurance claim has been initiated.
•	
The Bank has proactively credited affected customer accounts after a 
thorough investigation and verification, ensuring minimal disruption to 
customer trust and service.
During fiscal 2025, pursuant to Section 143(12) of the Act, the Secretarial Auditors of the Bank have not reported any 
instances of frauds committed in the Bank by its officers or its employees.
Secretarial Standards
The Bank is in compliance with the applicable Secretarial Standards, i.e., SS-1 and SS-2, relating to ‘Meetings of the Board of 
Directors’ and ‘General Meetings’, respectively issued by the ICSI. The Bank has also voluntarily adopted the recommendatory 
‘Secretarial Standard on Dividend’ (“SS-3”) and ‘Secretarial Standard on Report of the Board of Directors’ (“SS-4”) issued by 
the ICSI.
Risk Management
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has constituted the Risk Management Committee of the 
Board which is chaired by an Independent Director. The details of the said Committee and its terms of reference are set out 
in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
The Bank has formulated and adopted a robust risk management framework. Whilst the Board is responsible for framing, 
implementing and monitoring the risk management framework, it has delegated its powers relating to monitoring, reviewing 
and identification of elements of risks associated with the business of the Bank to the said Committee. The details of the 
risk management framework and issues related thereto have been disclosed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
Report, which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Bank has been formally undertaking Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) activities since 2006, with the founding of 
Axis Bank Foundation (“ABF”). With the introduction of Section 135 of the Act making CSR mandatory, the Bank expanded 
its spectrum of activities to undertake interventions across India in identified themes, directly, through ABF and through 
credible implementation partners.

217
Board’s report
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 135 of the Act, read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014 (“CSR Rules”), as amended from time to time, the Bank has constituted the CSR Committee of the Board which is 
chaired by an Independent Director.
The Bank formulated and adopted a CSR policy which provides the focus areas (in accordance with Schedule VII of the Act) 
under which various developmental initiatives are undertaken.
The composition of the CSR Committee, CSR policy and projects / programs approved by the Board are available on the 
website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/csr/social-responsibility.
The Annual Report on CSR activities of the Bank during fiscal 2025, in accordance with the CSR Rules, is attached as 
Annexure 4 to this report. Further details on CSR activities also form part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
In terms of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, top 1000 listed entities based on their market capitalisation 
as on 31 March, every year, were required to submit Business Responsibility Report (“BRR”), as a part of their annual report.
In November 2018, the MCA constituted a committee to revise the National Voluntary Guidelines (“NVG”) on which the 
BRR was based, which were subsequently revised and released as the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 
(“NGRBC”) in 2019. Further, the BRR was aligned to the NGRBC, and renamed and released as the Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) in 2020.
SEBI vide circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12 July, 2023, as amended from time to time, 
updated the format of BRSR to include BRSR Core which is a set of key performance indicators / metrics under nine 
ESG attributes. SEBI further mandated the top 150 listed companies (by market capitalisation) to undertake a reasonable 
assurance of the BRSR Core from fiscal 2024.
The Bank’s BRSR for fiscal 2025 along with the reasonable assurance statement from SGS India Private Limited is available 
on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/business-
responsibility-report.
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption, Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The particulars as prescribed under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014 is attached as Annexure 5 to this report.
Annual Return
The annual return in Form MGT-7 as on 31 March, 2025, as mandated under the provisions of Section 92(3) read with 
Section 134(3)(a) of the Act, has been uploaded on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-
corner/shareholders-information/annual-return.
Other Disclosures
•	
Change in the nature of business: There has been no change in the nature of business of the Bank.
•	
Significant and material order passed by regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern status and 
future operations of the Bank: There were no significant and / or material orders passed by any regulator, court or 
tribunals against the Bank, which could impact its going concern status or future operations.
•	
Deposits: Being a banking company, the disclosures relating to deposits as required under Rule 8(5)(v) & (vi) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, read with Sections 73 and 74 of the Act, are not applicable.
•	
Material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Bank: There were no material changes and 
commitments affecting the financial position of the Bank, between the end of the fiscal year to which the financial 
statements relate and the date of this report.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
218
Statutory reports
•	
Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments: Pursuant to Section 186(11) of the Act, the provisions of Section 
186 of the Act, except sub-section (1), do not apply to a loan made, guarantee given, or security provided by a banking 
company in the ordinary course of its business. The particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed in 
schedule 8 of the financial statements as per the applicable provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
•	
Maintenance of cost records: Being a banking company, provisions of Section 148(1) of the Act, relating to maintenance 
of cost records is not applicable.
•	
Proceedings under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016: There is no application or proceeding pending against the 
Bank under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 during the year under review.
•	
One-Time Settlement: There was no instance of one-time settlement with any other Bank or financial institution 
during the year under review.
Annexures
The following statements / reports / certificates are annexed to the Board’s Report:
1.	
Disclosures pursuant to Section 197(12) read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
2.	
Secretarial Audit Report pursuant to Section 204 of the Act and Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
3.	
Certificate from Secretarial Auditor on non-disqualification of Directors pursuant to Regulation 34(3) read with 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
4.	
Annual Report on CSR activities of the Bank for fiscal 2025.
5.	
The particulars of Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption, and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo as 
prescribed under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
Acknowledgements and Appreciations
The Board places on record its gratitude to the Government of India, RBI, MCA, SEBI, other statutory and regulatory 
authorities, financial institutions, stock exchanges, registrar and share transfer agent, debenture trustees, depositories and 
correspondent banks for their ongoing support and guidance.
The Board would also like to extend its sincere gratitude to each of its valued customers for the continued patronage and to 
all the members of the Bank for the ongoing support.
The Board also expresses its heartfelt thanks and appreciation to each employee and their families for their continued 
commitment towards the Bank and its customers, who by exhibiting strong work ethics, professionalism, teamwork and 
initiatives, helped the Bank continue to serve its depositors and customers and reinforce its customer centric reputation 
despite the challenging environment.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Mumbai	
N. S. Vishwanathan
Date: 25 April, 2025 	
Chairman
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

219
Board’s report
Annexure 1
DISCLOSURE ON REMUNERATION
[Pursuant to Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
(i)	
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director of the Bank to the median remuneration of the employees of 
the Bank for the fiscal 2025 and the percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial 
Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the fiscal 2025, is as under:
Name of the Directors
Designation
Ratio of remuneration to 
median remuneration of 
all employees2
% increase in the 
remuneration in the fiscal 
2025
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman
8.0
NA
Girish Paranjpe
Independent Director
9.3
NA
Meena Ganesh
Independent Director
8.7
NA
G. Padmanabhan
Independent Director
6.8
NA
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Independent Director
9.4
NA
P. N. Prasad
Independent Director
7.7
NA
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
Independent Director
7.6
NA
Pranam Wahi
Independent Director
7.3
NA
Mini Ipe
Non-Executive Nominee Director
8.5
NA
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
101.8
5.23
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
66.5
6.37
Subrat Mohanty
Executive Director
54.0
6.34
Munish Sharda
Executive Director
54.0
6.34
Puneet Sharma
Group Executive & Chief Financial Officer
32.9
7.23
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
17.9
5.50
	
1  The Bank has considered the annualized fixed pay for computation of ratios and percentage increase in remuneration. Fixed pay includes 
salary, allowances, retiral benefits as well as value of perquisites as approved by the RBI. Variable pay has been excluded from the same.
	
2 All confirmed employees (excluding front line sales force), as on 31 March, 2025 have been considered.
	
3 All the Independent Directors and Nominee Director of the Bank were paid sitting fees of ₹100,000 for every meeting of the Board, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee of the Board, Committee of Directors, Risk Management Committee and 
IT & Digital Strategy Committee, attended by them. In respect of other Committees of the Board, sitting fees of ₹75,000 was paid to 
the Directors. Further, all the Independent Director of the Bank were paid sitting fees of `100,000 for attending every meeting of the 
Independent Directors. In accordance with the RBI circular dated 26 April, 2021 on ‘Corporate Governance in Banks - Appointment of 
Directors and Constitution of Committees of the Board’, the Bank has paid fixed remuneration to its Non-Executive Nominee Director and 
Independent Directors (except the Independent Part-Time Chairman) within the prescribed limit of ₹30 lakh per annum per Director. 
(ii)	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees of the Bank during the fiscal 2025:
	
The median remuneration of employees of the Bank increased by 4.3% in fiscal 2025, as compared to fiscal 2024.
(iii)	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025:
	
The Bank had 104,453 permanent employees on its rolls as on 31 March, 2025.
(iv)	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees of the Bank other than its managerial personnel 
during the last fiscal year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration (“KMPs”) 
and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial 
remuneration:
	
• 	
Average remuneration increase for non-managerial personnel of the Bank during fiscal 2025 was 8.03%.
	
• 	
The average remuneration increase for the managerial personnel (KMPs) of the Bank was 6.2%.
	
• 	
The difference in average remuneration is on account of annual fixed pay increase for non-managerial personnel.
(v)	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Bank:
	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid during fiscal 2025, is in accordance with the remuneration policy of the 
Bank.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
220
Statutory reports
Annexure 2
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
AXIS BANK LIMITED
CIN: L65110GJ1993PLC020769
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Axis Bank Limited (hereinafter called “the Bank”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing our opinion 
thereon.
Based on our verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Bank and also the information provided by the Bank, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during 
the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Bank has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended 31 March, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Bank has 
proper Board-processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for 
the financial year ended 31 March, 2025 according to the provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules made thereunder;
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”) and the Rules made thereunder;
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment. The Bank has not made any Overseas Direct Investment and does not have External Commercial 
Borrowings during the financial year;
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(“SEBI Act”): -
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018#;
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act, 2013 and dealing with client;
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021#;
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018#;

221
Board’s report
	
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
	
j.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulation, 1992;
	
k.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 1994;
	
l.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996; and
	
m.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019.
	
# The Regulations or Guidelines, as the case may be were not applicable to the Bank for the period under review.
The list of Acts, Laws and Regulations specifically applicable to the Bank are given below:
vi.	
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with applicable circulars/notifications/guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India from time to time.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
i.	
Secretarial Standards 1 and 2 issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
ii.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
During the period under review, the Bank has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above, to the extent applicable.
We further report that –
The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period 
under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board and Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent at least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held at shorter notice and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
During the period under review, decisions were carried through unanimously and no dissenting views were observed, while 
reviewing the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Bank commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Bank to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the Bank has undertaken the following events / actions –
1.	
Members’ approval was obtained at the 30th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on 26 July, 2024 for:
	
a.	
borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any other permitted foreign currency, by issue of 
debt securities on a private placement basis up to an amount of `35,000/- crores in domestic and / or overseas 
markets within the overall borrowing limits of the Bank;
	
b.	
raising of funds by issue of equity shares / depository receipts and / or any other instruments or securities 
representing either equity shares and / or convertible securities linked to equity shares for an amount up to 
`20,000/- crores.
2.	
The Committee of Whole-time Directors of the Bank on 05 September, 2024, has approved the allotment of 3,92,500 
fully paid, Senior, Rated, Listed, Unsecured, Taxable, Redeemable, Long Term Non-Convertible Debentures (Series – 8) 
of the face value of `1 lakh each, at par aggregating to `3,925/- crores, at a coupon rate of 7.45% p.a. payable annually, 
on a private placement basis.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
222
Statutory reports
3.	
The Bank has redeemed Senior, Unsecured and Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (Series- 1) aggregating to 
`5,705/- crores having ISIN INE238A08351 on 05 December, 2024 and Unsecured, Redeemable Non-Convertible 
Debentures (Series- 22) aggregating to `850/- crores having ISIN INE238A08369 on 12 February, 2025.
4.	
The Financial Intelligence Unit – India vide its order dated 03 June, 2024, has imposed a monetary penalty of 
`1,66,25,000/- on the Bank pertaining to non-compliance in respect of opening and monitoring of certain accounts 
under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 read with Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of 
Records) Rules, 2005.
5.	
The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) vide its letter dated 10 September, 2024, has imposed a monetary penalty of 
`1.91/- crores on the Bank pertaining to non-compliance with certain provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and certain directions issued by RBI on ‘Interest Rate on Deposits’, ‘Know Your Customer’ (“KYC”) and ‘Credit Flow to 
Agriculture- Collateral free agricultural loans’.
6.	
RBI vide its order and email dated 12 February, 2025, has imposed a compounding penalty of `37,32,505/- on the Bank 
pertaining to non-compliance with certain provisions of Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security 
by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000, Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security 
by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017 and Foreign Exchange Management (Non-Debt Instruments) 
Rules, 2019.
For Bhandari & Associates
Company Secretaries
Unique Identification No.: P1981MH043700
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6157/2024
Manisha Maheshwari
Partner
	
FCS No.: 13272; C P No.: 11031
Mumbai | 25 April, 2025	
ICSI UDIN: F013272G000193419
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure ‘A’ and forms an integral part of this 
report.

223
Board’s report
‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
AXIS BANK LIMITED
CIN: L65110GJ1993PLC020769
Our Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended 31 March, 2025 of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Bank. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
4.	
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For Bhandari & Associates
Company Secretaries
Unique Identification No.: P1981MH043700
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6157/2024
Manisha Maheshwari
Partner
	
FCS No.: 13272; C P No.: 11031
Mumbai | 25 April, 2025	
ICSI UDIN: F013272G000193419

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
224
Statutory reports
Annexure 3
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members,
Axis Bank Limited,
Trishul, 3rd Floor,
Opp. Samartheshwar Temple,
Law Garden Ellisbridge,
Ahmedabad – 380 006
Gujarat.
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Axis Bank 
Limited having Corporate Identity Number (“CIN”) : L65110GJ1993PLC020769 and having registered office at Trishul, 
3rd Floor, Opp. Samartheshwar Temple, Law Garden Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad – 380006, Gujarat (hereinafter referred to 
as “the Bank”), produced before us by the Bank for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 
34(3) read with clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number 
(“DIN”) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank & its 
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the financial year ended 
31 March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of appointment in the Bank
1.
Subramanian Nurani Vishwanathan
09568559
30.05.2023
2.
Girish Paranjpe
02172725
02.11.2018
3.
Meena Ganesh
00528252
01.08.2020
4.
G. Padmanabhan
07130908
28.10.2020
5.
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
06519869
14.06.2021
6.
P. N. Prasad
07430506
20.10.2022
7.
CH S. S. Mallikarjunarao
07667641
01.02.2023
8.
Pranam Wahi
00031914
15.02.2024
9.
Mini Ipe
07791184
29.07.2023
10.
Rajiv Anand
02541753
04.08.2016
11.
Subrat Mohanty
08679444
17.08.2023
12.
Munish Sharda
06796060
27.02.2024
13.
Amitabh Chaudhry
00531120
01.01.2019
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Bank.
For Bhandari & Associates
Company Secretaries
Unique Identification No.: P1981MH043700
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6157/2024
Manisha Maheshwari
Partner
	
FCS No.: 13272; C P No.: 11031
Mumbai | 25 April, 2025	
ICSI UDIN: F013272G000193463

225
Board’s report
Annexure 4
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES
[As prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
Rules 2014 and amended as per the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules]
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company: The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) philosophy is to make meaningful 
and measurable contributions to the inclusive, equitable and sustainable development of India. The Bank strives to 
support those from socially, economically, or physically excluded and disadvantaged communities, and strengthen the 
country’s development ecosystem. The Bank has adopted an integrated approach that focuses on, creating opportunities 
for secure and sustainable livelihoods, improving the quality of and access to education, strengthening financial inclusion 
and financial literacy amongst unbanked and underbanked sections of society, supporting environmental sustainability, 
and providing humanitarian support and relief where needed.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sr 
No
Name of Director
Designation/nature of Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director and Part Time Chairman
4
3
2
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
4
4
3
Meena Ganesh
Independent Director
4
4
4
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Independent Director
4
4
5
Munish Sharda
Executive Director
4
3
3.	
Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the board 
are disclosed on the website of the Company:
	
https://www.axisbank.com/csr/social-responsibility
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance 
of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8, if applicable:
	
An impact assessment was conducted through a third-party agency on five of our projects under Financial Literacy, 
Education and Humanitarian & Relief themes respectively, in accordance with sub-rule (3) (a) of Rule 8 of CSR Rules. 
A summary of these assessments is provided below and the complete assessment reports are available on the Bank’s 
website at https://www.axisbank.com/csr/social-responsibility.
	
Impact Assessment Project 1
	
Financial Literacy Training Program
	
Axis Bank’s financial literacy program aims to create awareness on personal financial management aspects through 
financial literacy initiatives and provide the underserved sections of society – especially rural population and urban 
poor, with access to formal banking channels and products under financial inclusion initiatives. The program also aims 
to facilitate access to Government benefit schemes and social security schemes through banking channels. The impact 
assessment of the program focuses on the effectiveness of trainings and short video films in local languages as the 
primary educational tool.
	
During fiscal 2023, a total of 0.9 million beneficiaries across 20 states and one Union Territory were provided financial 
literacy trainings. The assessment is based on data collected from an exhaustive survey conducted between October 
2024 - January 2025, involving 2,326 women who participated in the program and a control group of 488 women from 
similar socio-economic backgrounds who did not view the video.
	
Key Findings:
	
1.	
The program achieved a 100% recall rate among participants, with the majority remembering key messages about 
savings and distinguishing essential from non-essential expenditures. In contrast, only 23% of the control group 
had similar exposure to financial literacy content.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
226
Statutory reports
	
2.	
77% participants reported tracking their household incomes and expenditures post-training, compared to about 
49% in the control group. Additionally, 44% of participants started this practice after watching the FL video, 
indicating a direct impact of the program on their financial habits.
	
3.	
Nearly all participants had a savings account, and over 90% were aware of receiving direct benefit transfers from 
the government, a significant increase from the control group 86%.
	
4.	
Among the participants, 94% have stated that health insurance is important as against 84% among the control 
group respondents.
	
5.	
The health and hygiene component appears to have been effective in raising awareness, with 84% of participants 
recalling related messages such as regular handwashing, keeping food covered, and maintaining hygiene while 
sneezing, compared to only 22% recall in the control group.
	
6.	
About 90% of respondents in the participant group have stated that they consider life insurance important as 
against the control group 78%. Further, 52% of these participants had some form of life insurance compared to 
only 37% of the control group respondents.
	
7.	
The case studies show improved financial awareness, Utilization of Skills for Income Generation, Awareness of 
government schemes etc. of the participants.
	
The Financial Literacy Program has been reasonably successful in raising financial awareness and capability among women 
participants. While the program has shown positive results in terms of awareness and behavioural change, there remains a 
gap in the actual subscription to financial products like insurance, suggesting a need for further targeted interventions.
	
Overall, the program significantly enhanced participants’ financial literacy, leading to better financial planning and 
security, demonstrating the critical role of such education in empowering individuals economically.
	
Impact Assessment Project 2
	
Financial Literacy through Mobile Vans
	
The Financial Literacy Program, supported by Axis Bank and implemented by CSC Academy, aimed to enhance financial 
understanding among rural populations in India using 20 mobile vans operated by Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs). 
The initiative targeted remote areas, delivering financial education through video content. The impact assessment for 
fiscal 2023 covered 18 locations where these vans operated, gathering feedback from 455 participants. The assessment 
involved identifying VLEs, surveying locations, conducting interviews with VLEs and participants, and evaluating recall 
and understanding of financial literacy concepts.
	
Key Findings:
	
1.	
High recall was observed for bank account opening procedures (77%), budgeting and financial planning (71%) and 
insurance schemes (69%).
	
2.	
Digital literacy topics had lower recall, with UPI app registration at 55% and safe use of digital banking apps at 62%.
	
3.	
Fraud awareness, including Ponzi schemes, had a recall of 69%, indicating a moderate understanding of financial risks.
	
4.	
Key financial concepts such as the documents required for opening a bank account (80%) and maintaining a basic 
savings account (76%) were well understood.
	
5.	
Topics like using loans for intended purposes (66%) and BHIM app usage (54%) showed lower comprehension, 
highlighting gaps in digital financial literacy.
	
6.	
Awareness of life insurance benefits stood at 72%, while 71% understood government insurance schemes.
	
7.	
62% of participants started budgeting after the training.
	
8.	
64% initiated financial planning discussions with their families.

227
Board’s report
	
The program has positively impacted financial literacy and inclusion in rural India, particularly in foundational topics like 
budgeting and insurance awareness.
	
Strengthening VLE training and ensuring better responsiveness can further maximize the program’s success.
	
Impact Assessment Project 3
	
Supporting Child Heart Surgeries in partnership with Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust
	
Axis Bank in partnership with Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust supported 300 heart surgeries for the children 
suffered by congenital heart disease at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital during fiscal 2023. These surgeries were 
conducted at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital, Raipur, Chhattisgarh with patients coming from 15 states across India, 
reflecting the program’s widespread impact. The program ensured not only life-saving interventions but also provided 
holistic care, including structured preoperative, surgical, and postoperative follow-up services. The initiative has had 
a transformative impact on children’s health, education, emotional well-being, and family finances, highlighting Axis 
Bank’s commitment to fostering a healthier and more inclusive future.
	
The below key findings are based on quantitative data from the cases, including a focused review of a sample of 
60 patient records (out of 300), and quantitative interviews conducted with 32 parents and children and qualitative 
interviews with key stakeholders, including cardiologists, surgeons, caseworkers, and chief medical officers along with 
the focussed group discussions (“FGDs”) with the Sri Sathya Sai Hospital’s Impact Assessment and Counselling Team.
	
Key Findings:
	
Notably, 300 surgeries supported by Axis Bank achieved a remarkable 100% surgical success rate at the time of surgery.
	
1.	
Child Health Improvement: 96.8 % of the interviewed respondents observed improvement in their health post-
surgery.
	
2.	
School Attendance: 82.76% of the school-age children resumed school regularly post-surgery.
	
3.	
Regular follow-up: 96.8% of the respondents informed that they come to the hospital for regular follow-ups at 
specified intervals.
	
4.	
Children participation in physical activities: 84.38% of the respondents observed that their children participate 
very actively in physical activities as compared to pre-surgery.
	
5.	
Satisfaction with surgery: 93.76% of interviewed families showed satisfaction.
	
6.	
Family’s emotional well-being: 81.26% of the interviewed respondents observed definite improvement in the 
emotional well-being.
	
7.	
Relevance: 90% of the families benefited out of the program are earning less than ₹ 20,000 per month.
	
Overall, the partnership with Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust played a crucial role in the lives of children 
affected with congenital heart diseases. The surgeries saved lives and alleviated critical health conditions, enabling 
children to resume normal, healthy lives. Stakeholders noted reduced mortality and complications due to adherence to 
global best practices like intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography. Children, previously burdened by illness, 
were able to return to school, improving their academic performance and social interactions. This outcome provided 
families with a renewed sense of hope for their children’s future. It also alleviated the financial problems and reducing 
economic burdens among the needy families.
	
Impact Assessment Project 4
	
Mid-Day Meal Program in partnership with the Akshaya Patra Foundation
	
Axis Bank in partnership with the Akshaya Patra Foundation provided Mid-Day Meals (“MDM”) to select schools in Uttar 
Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Odisha covering about 1 Lakh children between December 2022 and March 2023. The 
evaluation was designed to assess the effectiveness and impact of the MDM program on students, teachers, parents, 
and other key stakeholders. It measured improvement in child nutrition, school participation, learning outcomes, and 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
228
Statutory reports
general satisfaction with the quality of meals. The research applied a retrospective post-then-pre impact assessment 
design with a mixed-methods approach to provide a comprehensive assessment. Quantitative data were applied to 
measure the outcomes objectively, while qualitative insights were used to gain a deeper understanding of experiences 
and challenges.
	
Demographic Profile: The survey covered 150 students from 15 schools in Odisha and Karnataka. Among these, 60.6% 
were females, and 87.9% of total students belonged to Below Poverty Line (“BPL”) families, which makes it evident that 
the programme catered to economically vulnerable children.
	
Key Findings:
	
1.	
Hunger Satisfaction: 96% of children satisfied with meal quantity, and it reflects an overwhelming acceptance of 
portion sizes.
	
2.	
Learning Outcomes: 100% of the teachers opined that the program improved students’ concentration and 
engagement in learning.
	
3.	
Attendance Affected: 87.5% of the teachers opined that stopping MDM would negatively impact student 
attendance.
	
4.	
Quality of Meal (reported by teachers): 85% of teachers felt that the meals were satisfactory
	
5.	
Meal Quality and Satisfaction by students: 62% of the students rated taste as “very good”. This percentage was 
the highest in Karnataka at 71%.
	
6.	
Health and Attendance: The project led to more energetic children, fewer sick days, and more attendance, hence, 
showing positive nutrition impacts.
	
Overall, the findings from various stakeholders highlight the significant impact of the MDM program on child nutrition, 
attendance, and academic performance.
	
Impact Assessment Project 5
	
Axis DilSe® - Lyzon Friendship School, Manipur in partnership with the Sunbird Trust
	
Axis Bank in partnership with the Sunbird Trust supported Lyzon Friendship School, Singngat subdivision, Churachandpur 
district, Manipur. The program interventions involved tuition and hostel fee support, key school infrastructure like 
Science Lab, digital classroom, etc.
	
The assessment was carried out to evaluate the social impact resulting from the implementation of the initiative. Given 
the nature of the project, a mixed method research approach was adopted to assess both quantitative and qualitative 
impact. Qualitative survey covered 15 students and 10 teachers from the school. In-depth interviews were conducted 
covering 8 children, 7 teachers, 8 parents and one principal and one hostel cook.
	
Key Findings:
	
1.	
Reducing financial stress: 100% of children reported that the support towards hostel and tuition fee reduced 
their financial stress, and further encouraged them to continue their educational journey. Teachers reported that 
financial aid served as motivation, prompting parents to ensure their children attended school regularly.
	
2.	
Reduced travel time and improved attendance: Support towards the hostel facility has proven to be highly 
beneficial for both students and their families. Students who previously had to travel long distances to reach 
school now benefit from the convenience of living on campus. This also led to better attendance and more time 
for study and extracurricular activities.
	
3.	
Dedicated Science Lab: 100% of the students reported that the lab class has been beneficial in Hands-on learning 
and 80% reported that it helped them to understand scientific methods better.

229
Board’s report
	
4.	
Digital classrooms: 67% of the students reported that they have benefited from the digital education classes in the 
school. 75% of teachers reported that they are conducting at least one digital class per week for students in grades 
4 through 8.
	
Overall, the assessment mentioned that the project exemplifies inclusivity by addressing the needs of communities 
facing challenges, with a focus on empowering underserved children regardless of their age, gender, social category and 
geographic location.
5.	
(a) 	 Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: `21,296.18 crores
	
(b) 	 Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: `425.92 crores
	
(c) 	 Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NIL
	
(d) 	 Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: Not Applicable
	
(e) 	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: `425.92 crores
6.	
(a) 	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ₹284.86 crores
	
(b) 	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: `1.73 crores
	
(c) 	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: `0.33 crore
	
(d) 	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: `286.92 crores
	
(e) 	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year
(` in crores)
Amount Unspent (` in crores)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per sub- section (6) of section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 135
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
286.92
139.65
17-Apr-2025
NA
NIL
NA
19-Apr-2025
21-Apr-2025
22-Apr-2025
23-Apr-2025
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Particular
Amount
(` in crores)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
425.92
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
426.57
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
0.65
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any
NIL
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
0.65

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
230
Statutory reports
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
No.
Preceding
Financial
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to
Unspent CSR
Account under 
sub- section (6) 
of Section 135
(` in crores)
Balance
Amount in 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub-
section (6) of 
Section 135
(` in crores)
Amount
Spent in the 
Financial 
Year 
(` in crores)
Amount transferred to a 
Fund as specified under 
Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to sub- 
section (5) of Section 
135, if any
Amount 
remaining 
to be
spent in
succeeding
Financial Years
(` in crores)
Deficiency, 
if
any
1
Fiscal 2022
24.88
NIL
1.48
NIL
NIL
NIL
2
Fiscal 2023
29.61
1.22
3.06
NIL
1.22
NIL
3
Fiscal 2024
51.24
NIL
51.24
NIL
NIL
NIL
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in 
the Financial Year:
	
	
	
Yes 	 	
	
	
	
No
	
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created / acquired:  Not applicable
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year: Not applicable
9. 	
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub- section (5) 
of Section 135:  Not Applicable.
Amitabh Chaudhry	
N. S. Vishwanathan
Managing Director & CEO	
Chairman of CSR Committee
Place: Mumbai
Date: 25 April 2025

231
Board’s report
Annexure 5
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
Conservation of Energy
The steps taken by the Bank or impact on conservation of energy:
a)	
Availability of Electrical vehicle charging facility at large buildings i.e., Axis House, Mumbai, Andheri MIDC & Axis 
House, Noida.
b)	
Lithium based battery backup is provided for all new UPS installations and existing replacement.
c)	
Inverter based air conditioning machines with green refrigerant gas (R32/R410A) is provided for all new installations 
and existing replacements.
d)	
Replacement of conventional lights with LED lights is provided in all branches / offices.
e)	
Centralized energy management system (“CEMS”) is operational in 600 branches to monitor and control energy 
consumption.
f)	
Daily re-cycling capacity of 110 kiloliters (“KL”) of water through sewage treatment plant is available at Axis House, Mumbai.
g)	
Availability of annual rainwater harvesting capacity of approximately 2000 KL at Axis House, Mumbai.
h)	
Savings of water consumption by use of sensors / bio-blocks in urinals at selected large offices.
The steps taken by the Bank for utilising alternate sources of energy:
a)	
Solar power purchased under power purchase agreement (“PPA”) model for Bank’s business continuity centre (data 
centre), Bengaluru.
b)	
Solar on ground installations aggregating 2MW.
c)	
Three large offices in Mumbai i.e., Axis House Mumbai, MIDC Andheri and the Ruby premises are being operational on 
100% renewal green energy.
Capital Investments on energy conservation equipment:
a)	
Replacement of conventional lights with LED lights at existing set up and new branches estimated at approximately 
`3.55 crores per annum.
b)	
Yearly cost of approximately `3.22 crores towards centralised energy management services project.
Technology absorption
1.	
Efforts made towards Technology Absorption:
	
The Bank remains committed to technology-driven business initiatives to simplify and enhance the banking experience 
for customers. Throughout fiscal 2025, several efforts were made to further bolster the Bank’s technological capabilities 
through continuous innovation and adoption.
	
a)	
OPEN by Axis: The Bank continues to expand its Mobile Banking platform, by offering over 250 features. The 
Bank has achieved impressive ratings of 4.8 on the iOS App Store from 349K ratings and 4.7 on the Google Play 
Store from 3.1 million reviews. The Bank’s enhanced channel capabilities have significantly increased the number 
of branch service requests handled, leading to a rise in monthly active users to over 14.5 million. The Bank’s Mobile 
Banking app now has 33.7 million registered customers. The Bank aims to maintain its leading position and high 
ratings on both the iOS App Store and Google Play Store throughout fiscal 2026.
	
b)	
Retail Channels: The Bank’s ‘Support’ website is now available in 10 languages: English, Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, 
Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Punjabi, Malayalam and Telugu. The Bank has expanded its digital services on the 
Branch of the Future (“BOTF”) channel to 32, introducing new features such as EMI cycle changes, EMI repayment 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
232
Statutory reports
account adjustments and loan account statement downloads. Furthermore, the Bank’s WhatsApp banking 
channel has surpassed 30 million customers, engaging in over 100 campaigns and facilitating more than 40 million 
communications, while also introducing FD booking and loan services as its latest offerings.
	
c)	
UPI: The Bank has upheld its robust presence in the UPI realm, boasting an accumulated VPA base of 1674 
million and facilitating approximately 37.6 million merchant transactions daily through the UPI platform. The 
Bank has secured number one position in the UPI Payer PSP space, holding a market share of approximately 
30%. Additionally, the Bank introduced UPI-enabled ATM cash withdrawals and deposits, complementing existing 
services such as RuPay Credit Card on UPI, digital currency interoperability through UPI and UPI enablement for 
international payments. The Bank remains dedicated to developing a robust IT infrastructure and enhancing IT 
capabilities, resulting in one of the lowest technical decline rates in the industry and setting its position as a leading 
payments solution provider.
	
d)	
GenAI: The Bank embarked on the journey of integrating GenAI into its operations and launched Axis Deep 
Intelligence (“ADI”), a Gen AI based internal chatbot. ADI is used across 5500+ branches across India and assists 
100,000+ employees. The Bank is leveraging emerging technologies such as AI / ML, Automation and Data 
analytics to improve customer experience, operational efficiency and boost staff productivity by building AI 
assists. Furthermore, the Bank has empowered different departments with Co-pilot capabilities including 4500+ 
bots across 1850+ automated processes.
	
e)	
API: The Bank has implemented API Gateway and ESB to provide a reliable, secure and hybrid API platform for 
external partners and internal consumers respectively. The Bank has built a Bespoke integration platform on cloud 
to orchestrate API products for partners like Account opening and Co-lending. Furthermore, the API guardrails 
classify the Bank’s APIs into different levels of criticality (High, Medium, Low) with better security controls and API 
governance. The Bank has launched API-based products including partnerships with Flipkart, Google, Airtel, that 
covers transactional banking, trade, credit card, forex, and payment solutions. The Bank has enhanced increased 
API consumption through 50% increase in daily API hits, 840+ partner APIs, 850+ partners onboardings, 2000+ 
Internal APIs. Additionally, the Bank’s API developer portal provides a platform for 5000+ developer to access 
460+ APIS enhancing the API accessibility.
	
f)	
Enterprise Architecture and Cloud: The Bank continued its commitment in fiscal 2025 to maintain a Cloud-first, 
Cloud-native architecture. Distinguishing itself from the peers, the Bank has established three enterprise-grade 
landing zones and successfully deployed 150+ applications on the Cloud and adopted continuous improvement/ 
continuous development practices for 100+ applications. Notably, the Bank holds the distinction of being the first 
Indian bank to attain ISO certification for AWS and Azure cloud security. The Bank continues to focus on hyper-
automation leveraging Infra-as-a-Code capabilities and enhancing application observability through Cloud-based 
SRE capabilities. The Bank’s cloud infrastructure has achieved high maturity across key performance indicators, 
including governance, resiliency, data recovery, security, monitoring, and incident response. The Bank has also 
obtained cloud privacy certification and implemented robust security measures such as Zero Trust Controls.
	
	
Furthermore, in fiscal 2025, the Bank built its First Data Lakehouse on Google Cloud for UPI in APAC. In fiscal 
2026, the Bank aims to evangelize GenAI and Agentic AI adoption in initiatives targeting market differentiated 
experiences, process efficiency, developer productivity and future readiness.
	
g)	
Infrastructure Resiliency: The Bank has centralized IT infrastructure and operates from two primary data centers 
located in different seismic zones within the country (Mumbai and Bengaluru regions) along with one near DR data 
center (Bengaluru). The data centers are equipped with wide-area network connectivity consisting of leased lines and 
multiprotocol label switching, enabling the delivery of applications to domestic and overseas branches and offices.
	
	
Furthermore, the Bank’s data centres are compliant with the highest benchmarking standards, built-in redundancy 
systems composed of multiple active power and cooling distribution paths. The Bank has implemented data 
privacy measures such as user access management, network security, secure configuration, business continuity 
planning (“BCP”), disaster recovery (“DR”), and database security. These initiatives allow seamless and accessible 
digital experiences for all customers, employees, and partners.
	
h)	
Cyber security: The Bank upholds unwavering dedication to maintaining the highest standards of data security 
and privacy, continually investing in fortifying its capabilities. The approach encompasses a comprehensive 
cyber security program, underpinned by a robust Cyber Security Policy and Standards aligned with industry best 
practices and regulatory mandates.

233
Board’s report
	
	
The Bank leverages the National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”) and ISO27001 Standards, and 
cyber security framework revolves around five core pillars: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. 
In adherence to stringent standards, the Bank is compliant with ISO27001 Information Security Management 
System (“ISMS”), ISO27017 Cloud Security Standard, ISO27034 Business Application Security Certification for its 
Software development and management domain, and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCIDSS”).
	
	
Recently, the Bank achieved ISO27018 Cloud Privacy (“PII”) Security Standard Certification. This milestone 
underscores the Bank’s heightened cyber security resilience and reinforced controls over the Bank’s IT and 
application assets. Operating round-the-clock, the Bank boasts a state-of-the-art Security Operations Centre and 
Cyber Security Operations System. All digital products undergo continuous monitoring on Dark Net and Deep 
Web platforms.
	
	
With a stellar BitSight Rating of 810 out of 900, surpassing 90% of tracked Banking and Finance entities, the 
Bank exhibits a well-controlled internet-facing security posture. Embracing a zero-trust architecture internally, the 
Bank continually augments its security technology and process controls. Furthermore, the Bank has conducted 
dedicated cyber security workshops for 1500+ mid and senior management employees, reinforcing its collective 
commitment to fostering a culture of cyber resilience across the organization.
	
i)	
Central bank digital currency (“CBDC”): The Bank has made significant progress in fiscal 2025 in the CBDC 
initiatives, becoming the first bank in Cohort to go live with both Android and iOS apps. The Bank has surpassed 
customer and transaction targets with 0.65+ million registered customers and 6+ million transactions. The Bank 
is also the preferred RBI partner to lead the Government-led Programmable CBDC initiative, collaborating with 
various ministries and organizations. The Banks aims to expand its collaboration with government for CBDC 
projects and integrate with TPAP to boost adoption.
2.	
Details of imported technology (imported during the last three years) reckoned from the beginning of the fiscal year 
is as follow:
	
a)	
The details of technology imported
	
	
(i)	
No hardware procurements have been made in foreign currency.
	
	
(ii)	
Several software licenses and upgrades across cards and payments and fund services - capital markets, have 
been procured over the past three financial years.
	
b)	
The year of import: 
	
	
The details are provided below:
Year*
Currency
Expenditure
Fiscal 2023
USD
1,08,942.00
Fiscal 2024
USD
4,80,000.00
Fiscal 2025
USD
21,88,211.30
Total
27,77,153.30
	
	
* Indicates amount paid in fiscal 2025 for purchase orders released in fiscal 2023, fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025.
	
c)	
Whether the technology been fully absorbed: 
	
	
All licenses procured have been put to use.
	
d)	
If not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not taken place, and the reasons thereof: 
	
	
NA.
3.	
The expenditure incurred on research and development: 
	
Nil
Foreign exchange earning and outgo
For fiscal 2025, for the domestic operations, the Bank had a net foreign exchange gain arising on all exchange / derivatives 
transactions of `2,138.37 crores and the foreign exchange outgo towards the operating and capital expenditure was 
`786.00 crores.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
234
Management’s discussion and analysis
Macro-economic Environment
Global economy enters a period of structural adjustments
The global economic system operational post-World War 2 is currently in the process of being reset. The Trump Administration 
has interpreted its political mandate to course-correct on the sharp increase in income and wealth inequality in the US, the 
atrophying of its manufacturing base, and what it sees as misuse of multilateral institutions that it helped erect over the past 
80 years. The Trump Administration has therefore begun to make structural changes to trade, taxes, regulations, immigration, 
currency and energy markets, among others. For example, it believes that existing global trading rules do not work anymore 
for the US and need to be dismantled or at least meaningfully amended, moving to bilateral agreements with partners instead 
of multilateral forums. However, it is still unclear what the new rules are likely to be, and by when the consensus around them 
can be built. Given US-China dominance in global trade, a prolonged conflict would have a substantial impact on global growth.
Similarly, the “new Triffin dilemma” necessitates a periodic downward reset of the US dollar. It highlights the risks from the 
country providing the global reserve currency needing to sustain a current account deficit, and thus, over decades, accumulating 
unsustainable international liabilities. Prior episodes of unilateral hikes in import tariffs, like in 1930 (Smoot-Hawley) and 1971 
(the Nixon shock) also drove similar disruptions, and triggered significant currency market volatility. Large changes in exchange 
rates unsettle economies and markets.
Negotiations on these issues, and evolution of the new models of engagement are likely to be contentious, driving a prolonged 
period of policy vacuum. The only restraint on the pace of this shift seems to be market volatility – when uncertainty crosses a 
certain level, markets become chaotic. Fear of chaos has driven a pull-back from overly disruptive steps a few times. 
Despite partial tariff rollbacks and ongoing negotiations to reduce them, the lack of clarity is likely to significantly slow global 
growth as 1) investment decisions will get postponed till visibility improves on tariffs and exchange rates; 2) higher tariffs 
mean fiscal tightening, among others driving a cutback in consumption; 3) financial conditions tighten due to uncertainty.
There can be some positive surprise for global growth if strong fiscal action materialises across Europe and China, breaking 
through the local political resistance. Similarly, an end to the Russia-Ukraine conflict can also help improve risk appetite and 
push energy prices lower. 
Indian economy 
In our view, the growth slowdown in the Indian economy in fiscal 2025 was due to fiscal and monetary tightening, much of it 
unintended. 
There were two sets of challenges fiscally. First, the union government’s fiscal deficit fell by 80 basis points of GDP in each of 
fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025. Second, while the spending was front-loaded in fiscal 2024, it was back loaded in fiscal 2025, both 
due to the general elections. This created a prolonged lull in government. Both these headwinds are now receding. Deficit in 
fiscal 2026 is set to fall only 40 bps of GDP, and the spending lull is now over, with seasonal patterns back. 
Second, on the monetary front, adjusted for the major merger in the banking system in fiscal 2024, non-food credit growth 
fell from 16.5% in March 2024 to 10.9% year-on-year (“Y-o-Y”) in March 2025.
This sharp slowdown was broad-based (i.e. not just limited to unsecured loans segment) and largely supply-driven. It was 
triggered by the regulator’s concerns on high loan-deposit ratios (LDR) at some banks. As banks slowed credit growth, 
deposit creation by banks slowed too, compounding the weak money injection by the RBI. Furthermore, FX intervention 
(USD sales by the central bank) drained durable liquidity by around `5 lakh crore, and intensified the liquidity stress, with 
rates on certificates of deposit diverging substantially from the expected policy rates. 
Recent steps by the RBI, like a CRR cut, bond purchases, buy-sell FX swaps, repo rate cuts, macroprudential easing and easier 
LCR norms have led to conditions that should support growth better. Inflation falling below 4% means the policy focus now is 
squarely on growth.  

Management’s discussion and analysis
235
India’s economy is among the least exposed to global factors, with direct impact from initial US reciprocal tariffs among the 
least in the world. There is some potential for share gains as well, as the “China + 1” trend gets another impetus. Improving 
competitive metrics, like in infrastructure and value-chain development in electronics, are likely to help. India’s services 
exports, particularly in the global capability centres, continue to be robust. The structural drivers behind this – disaggregation 
of global services value-chains, rapid increase in global cross-border telecom bandwidth, and the surge in remote-working – are 
likely to persist. India’s share of modern services exports is now a remarkable 8%. However, uncertainty on global growth may 
adversely affect some sectors of the economy in the near-term. 
Developments in the Banking system
Adjusted for a major merger in the financial system, banking system non-food credit grew 10.9% Y-o-Y as of 4 April, 2025, 
while deposit growth was up 10.1% Y-o-Y. 
Credit growth continues to be dominated by services (this includes credit to NBFCs), followed by the retail segment. While 
credit to agriculture is strong, industry segment growth has stayed subdued. Within industry, growth in MSMEs continues to 
be faster than large corporates. 
Regulators have rolled back risk weights on bank lending to NBFCs and MFIs which should contribute to the overall banking 
system growth going forward. 
The banking system remains well capitalized to meet the needs of a growing economy, with early signs of growth in private 
investments, and credit risks remain subdued. 
Prospects for fiscal 2026 
A revival in the domestic real-estate market, and in general the reversal of several headwinds that slowed the economy last 
year should be supportive of credit demand. With liquidity conditions easing supply, and transmission of rate cuts underway, 
credit growth should pick up from current levels. The high uncertainty emanating from US trade policies and financial market 
shocks may push out corporate investments and keep their loan demand weak. 
Medium term Outlook
Over the past decade, consensus estimates for India’s trend growth rate declined from around 8% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 
2012 to the current range of 6-6.5%. COVID cast new shadows on potential trend growth. We believe the growth slowdown 
in the previous decade was due to cyclical factors, in particular the real-estate downturn, and trend growth remains above 7%. 
This consists of: a) 1% annual growth in labour input, as the number of workers of working age continues to expand, and female 
labour force participation and hours worked should rise; b) 2% to 2.5% annual growth in total-factor-productivity due to the 
state still willingly ceding space to the private sector, strong productivity growth in services, improvement in macro (highways, 
railways) as well as micro-infrastructure (like piped water, internet, electricity and cooking gas connections), and technology 
transfer emanating from the surge in global capability centres; and c) 4%-plus growth in capital formation due to a cyclical 
recovery in real-estate and private sector capex. We expect inflation to average 4% in fiscal 2026 as the economy remains 
nearly a year behind its pre-pandemic path, keeping labour in surplus. 
With nominal GDP growth likely to average 11% annually, and the formal economy expected to grow faster, system bank credit 
growth can be in the low to mid-teens.
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Operating performance
(`in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Net interest income	
54,348
49,894
9%
Non-interest income
25,257
22,442
13%
Operative revenue
79,605
72,336
10%
Operating expenses
37,500
35,213
6%
Operating profit
42,105
37,123
13%
Provisions and contingencies
7,759
4,063
91%
Profit before tax 
34,346
33,060
4%
Provision for tax
7,973
8,199
(3%)
Net profit
26,373
24,861
6%

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
236
Operating revenue increased by 10% Y-o-Y (year-on-year) from `72,336 crores in fiscal 2024 to `79,605 crores in fiscal 
2025. Net interest income (NII) rose 9% from `49,894 crores in fiscal 2024 to `54,348 crores in fiscal 2025. Non-interest 
income consisting of fee, trading and other income increased by 13% from `22,442 crores in fiscal 2024 to `25,257 crores 
in fiscal 2025. Operating expenses grew 6% from `35,213 crores in fiscal 2024 to `37,500 crores in fiscal 2025. As a result, 
the operating profit grew by 13% to `42,105 crores from `37,123 crores reported last year. Provisions and contingencies 
increased by 91% from `4,063 crores in fiscal 2024 to `7,759 crores in fiscal 2025. Consequently, net profit increased by 6% 
Y-o-Y from `24,861 crores in fiscal 2024 to `26,373 crores in fiscal 2025.
Net interest income

(` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Interest on loans
97,200
87,107
12%
Interest on investments
22,928
20,011
15%
Other interest income
2,549
2,251
13%
Interest income
122,677
109,369
12%
Interest on deposits
53,902
45,542
18%
Other interest expense
14,427
13,932
4%
Interest expense
68,329
59,474
15%
Net interest income	
	
54,348
49,894
9%
Average interest earning assets1
1,364,266
1,225,443
11%
Average  Current Account and Savings Account (CASA)1
413,419
398,848
4%
Net interest margin (NIM)
3.98%
4.07%
Yield on assets
8.99%
8.92%
Yield on advances
9.86%
9.89%
Yield on investments
6.84%
6.70%
Cost of funds
5.46%
5.25%
Cost of deposits
5.12%
4.86%
1 computed on daily average basis
NII constituted 68% of the operating revenue and increased by 9% from `49,894 crores in fiscal 2024 to `54,348 crores in 
fiscal 2025. Yield on assets increased by 7 bps while cost of funds increased by 21 bps. As a result, the NIM declined 9 bps 
Y-o-Y to 3.98% in fiscal 2025.
During this period, the yield on interest earning assets increased from 8.92% in fiscal 2024 to 8.99% in fiscal 2025 largely 
due to improved mix of better yielding assets in the Balance Sheet. The yield on advances decreased marginally by 3 bps 
from 9.89% in fiscal 2024 to 9.86% in fiscal 2025. The decrease in yield on advances is mainly due to increase in interest 
reversals due to higher slippages. ~72% of the loans of the Bank are floating rate loans, linked to external/internal benchmark 
rates. Repo rate has decreased from 6.50% in fiscal 2024 to 6.25% in February 2025.  The yield on investments increased 
by 14 bps during fiscal 2025. 
The decrease in share of low cost bearing liabilities along with repricing of the term deposits during the course of the year has led 
to higher cost of funds. As a result, the cost of funds increased by 21 bps from 5.25% in fiscal 2024 to 5.46% in fiscal 2025. Cost 
of deposits increased to 5.12% from 4.86% last fiscal mainly due to increase in funding cost of term deposits. Daily average CASA 
ratio as a proportion to deposits decreased by 328 bps in fiscal 2025 to 39.26% from 42.54% in fiscal 2024. 
Performance of the Bank against the key drivers for the NIM improvement journey of the Bank in fiscal 2025 is as follows:
•	
Improvement in Balance Sheet mix: loans and investments comprised 89% of total assets as at the end of fiscal 2025, 
improving 149 bps Y-o-Y;
•	
INR denominated loans comprised 96% of total advances at the end of fiscal 2025, stable Y-o-Y;
•	
Retail and CBG advances comprised 71% of total advances as at 31 March, 2025, improving  5 bps Y-o-Y; 

Management’s discussion and analysis
237
•	
Balance outstanding in low-yielding priority sector shortfall deposits declined by `7,107 crores Y-o-Y with 
priority sector short fall deposits comprising 0.90% of total assets as at 31 March, 2025 as compared to 1.46% at 
31 March, 2024;
•	
Quality of liabilities measured by outflow rate improved ~340 bps over last three years, month end CASA% at 41% at 
31 March, 2025 continues to be amongst the highest in the large private sector banks universe.
The Bank also earned interest on income tax refund of `369 crores in fiscal 2025 as compared to `75 crores in fiscal 2024. 
The receipt, amount and timing of such income depends on the nature and determinations by tax authorities and is hence 
neither consistent nor predictable. 
Non-interest income

(` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Fee income
22,504
20,257
11%
Trading profit
2,059
1,731 
19%
Miscellaneous income
694
454 
53%
Non-interest income	
	
25,257
22,442
13%
Non-interest income comprising fees, trading profit and 
miscellaneous income increased by 13% to `25,257 crores in fiscal 
2025 from `22,442 crores last year and constituted 32% of the 
operating revenue of the Bank.
Fee income increased by 11% to `22,504 crores from `20,257 
crores last year and continued to remain a significant part of the 
Bank’s non-interest income. It constituted 89% of non-interest 
income and contributed 28% to the operating revenue in fiscal 
2025.  Growth in reported fee income was mainly on account of 
increase in business across segments. 
Segmental composition of fee income continued to remain stable Y-o-Y as under -
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Retail Banking 
72%
72%
Wholesale Banking 
25%
25%
Commercial Banking 
3%
3%
Retail Banking fees constituted 72% of the total fee income of the Bank in fiscal 2025 and grew strongly at 12% on a Y-o-Y 
basis. Fees from retail cards grew 7% Y-o-Y in fiscal 2025 while retail non-card fees also grew strongly by 16%. 
Fee income derived from the Wholesale Banking segment has remained stable Y-o-Y at 25% of the Bank’s total fee income. 
Within Wholesale Banking, granular transaction banking fees grew 10% Y-o-Y. Fee income from the Bank’s CBG (Commercial 
Banking Group) that lends to small and medium enterprises accounted for 3% of the Bank’s total fee income. 
Effective 1 April, 2024 the Bank adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on Classification, 
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment Direction, 2023’). During 
the year, trading profits without considering impact of mark-to-market gain/(loss) on revaluation of investments increased by 
5% to `1,359 crores from `1,299 crores last year mainly on account of higher profits on the SLR portfolio. 
The Bank recognised mark-to-market gain on revaluation of investments of `701 crores in fiscal 2025 as compared to a write 
back in provision for depreciation on investments of `431 crores in fiscal 2024. 
10,686 
13,001 
15,858 
20,257 
22,504 
1,218 
1,626 
-242 
1,731 
2,059 
360 
593 
527 
454 
694 
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
Fee Income
Trading Proﬁt
Misc Income
(` in crores)
Non-Interest Income

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
238
The Bank’s miscellaneous income in fiscal 2025 stood at `694 crores compared to `454 crores in fiscal 2024, comprising 
mainly income from display of publicity material amounting to `258 crores and income from sale of Priority Sector Lending 
Certificates (PSLC) amounting to `197 crores in fiscal 2025.
Operating revenue
The operating revenue of the Bank increased by 10% to `79,605 crores from `72,336 crores last year. The core income 
streams (NII and fees) constituted 97% of the operating revenue, reflecting the stability of the Bank’s earnings. 
Operating expenses

(` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Staff cost
12,193
10,933
12%
Depreciation
1,699
1,334
27%
Other operating expenses
23,608
22,946
3%
Operating expenses
37,500
35,213
6%
Cost : Income Ratio
47.11%
48.68%
Cost: Asset Ratio
2.46%
2.55%
Y-o-Y growth rate in operating expenses moderated to 6% in fiscal 2025 as compared to 30% in fiscal 2024 with operating 
expenses increasing to `37,500 crores from `35,213 crores last 
year. The Bank continued to invest in technology and human 
capital for supporting the existing and new businesses. 17% of 
total cost increase was on account of investments in technology 
and future growth, 24% of the total cost increase was volume 
linked and balance 59% was business as usual expenses which 
was partially offset by reduction in integration costs. 
Staff cost increased by 12% from `10,933 crores in fiscal 2024 
to `12,193 crores in fiscal 2025, primarily due to annual wage 
revision. The Bank’s employee strength during fiscal 2025 was at 
104,453 which remained largely stable as compared to 104,332 
employees as at the end of fiscal 2024. 
Other operating expenses increased by 4% from `24,280 crores in fiscal 2024 to `25,307 crores in fiscal 2025. The increase 
is primarily due to increase in volume linked costs coming from rising business volumes, investments in technology to support 
future business growth which was partially offset by reduction in integration cost. 
The Operating Expenses to Assets ratio decreased to 2.46%, compared to 2.55% last year. 
Operating profit
During the year, the operating profit of the Bank increased by 13% to `42,105 crores from `37,123 crores last year on 
account of strong growth in operating revenues and partially offset by a moderated growth in operating expenses. 
Provisions and contingencies

(` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Provision for non-performing assets
11,356
6,453
76%
Recoveries from written off accounts
(3,809)
(2,773)
37%
Provision for restructured assets
(1)
(1)
-
Other Provisions
-	
Provision for country risk
11
6
83%
1.96 
2.17 
2.25 
2.55 
2.46 
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
Operating Expenses to Assets %

Management’s discussion and analysis
239
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
-	
Provision for standard assets including unhedged foreign currency 
exposure
11
300
(96%)
-	
Additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan
(38)
49
-
-	
Provision for COVID-19 and MSME Restructuring
(143)
(279)
(49%)
-	
Provision for other contingencies
372
308
21%
Total Provision and contingencies
7,759
4,063
91%
During fiscal 2025, provisions (other than provisions for tax) increased 91% Y-o-Y to `7,759 crores from `4,063 crores last 
year. Key items of provisions are explained below -
Provisions for non-performing assets and Recoveries from written off accounts:
The gross slippages in % terms increased from 1.68% in fiscal 2024 to 1.99% in fiscal 2025. The Bank provided `11,356 
crores towards non-performing assets compared to `6,453 crores last year. The increase in provision for non-performing 
assets is primarily on account of higher net slippage ratio at 1.16% in fiscal 2025 as compared to  0.64% crores in fiscal 2024. 
The Bank’s recoveries from written off accounts in fiscal 2025 was higher, amounting to `3,809 crores as against `2,773 
crores in fiscal 2024.
Pursuant to the RBI notification dated 29 March, 2025, on revised norms for Government Guaranteed Security Receipts 
(SRs), the Bank has reversed excess provision of `801 crores to the Profit and Loss Account held on loans transferred to 
NARCL during fiscal 2025.
Other provisions:
•	
Provisions for standard assets:
	
The Bank made a provision of `11 crores for standard assets including unhedged foreign currency exposure compared 
to provision of `300 crores last year.  
	
•	
During the year, the Bank made a provision for standard assets of `66 crores as against a provision of `208 crores 
made in fiscal 2024. 
	
•	
Further, during the year the Bank had a write back of `55 crores as against a provision of `92 crores made in fiscal 
2024 for unhedged foreign currency exposure. 
•	
During fiscal 2025, the Bank had a write back in provision of `38 crores pursuant to implementation of resolution plan in 
certain accounts. As compared to the same there was provision of `49 crores in fiscal 2024 for delay in implementation 
of resolution plan.
•	
During fiscal 2025, there was a write-back of `143 crores in provision for loans subjected to COVID-19 and MSME 
restructuring mainly on account of slippages and recoveries, as compared to a write back in provision of `279 crores in 
fiscal 2024.
As at the end of fiscal 2025, the cumulative non NPA provisions held by the Bank amounted to `11,957 crores with a 
standard asset coverage ratio (all non NPA provisions / standard assets) of  1.15%. 
Provision for tax
Provision for tax for fiscal 2025 stood at `7,973 crores as compared to `8,199 crores for last year. The Bank received 
favourable orders at ITAT for 6 assessment years commencing AY 2010-11. This has resulted in a write-back of excess tax 
provisions made in the previous financial years, aggregating to `550 crores.
Net profit
Net profit for fiscal 2025 increased by 6% Y-o-Y to `26,373 crores as compared to the net profit of `24,861 crores last year. 

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
240
Asset Quality Parameters
The Bank added `19,474 crores to Gross NPAs during the year with the ratio of Gross NPAs to gross customer assets 
declining to 1.28%, at the end of March 2025 from 1.43% as at end of March 2024. The Bank added `11,195 crores to Net 
NPAs after adjusting for recoveries and upgradations of `4,627 crores and `3,652 crores respectively and the Bank’s Net 
NPA ratio (Net NPAs as percentage of net customer assets) increased marginally to 0.33% from 0.31%. The Bank’s provision 
coverage ratio excluding prudential write-offs during the fiscal stood at 75%. The Bank’s accumulated prudential write-off 
pool stood at `42,818 crores as at end of fiscal 2025.
During the fiscal, the quantum of low rated pool of BB and below accounts (excluding investments and non-fund based 
exposure) decreased and stood at `2,548 crores as compared to 
`2,978 crores at the end of fiscal 2024. The aggregate outstanding 
in such low rated pool of BB and below investments and non-fund 
based accounts was `932 crores and `1,056 crores respectively as at 
the end of March 2025.
The fund based outstanding of standard loans under COVID -19 
resolution scheme at 31 March, 2025 stood at `1,209 crores 
or ~0.11% of gross customer assets. The linked non fund based 
outstanding for which there has been no change in original terms 
stood at `630 crores. Outstanding restructured loans under the 
MSME scheme stood at `150 crores. The Bank holds a provision of 
`392 crores on these restructured assets including linked accounts. 
Key ratios
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Basic earnings per share (`)
85.28
80.67
Diluted earnings per share (`)
84.77
80.10
Book value per share (`)
576.67
486.74
Return on equity (%)
16.52%
18.86%
Return on assets (%)
1.74%
1.83%
Net interest margin (%)
3.98%
4.07%
Profit per employee (` lakh)
25.45
25.29
Loan to Deposit ratio (Domestic)
88.47%
88.88%
Loan to Deposit ratio (Global)
88.73%
90.31%
Basic Earnings per Share (EPS) was `85.28 compared to `80.67 last year, while the Diluted EPS was `84.77 compared to 
`80.10 last year. 
Return on Equity (RoE) was 16.52% for fiscal 2025 as compared to 18.86% in fiscal 2024. Return on Assets (RoA) was 1.74% 
in fiscal 2025 from 1.83% last year.  Book Value per Share increased by 18% to `576.67 from `486.74 last year while profit 
per employee remained stable at `25.45 lakhs per employee.
Loan to Deposit (CD) ratio of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 was at 88.73% with a domestic CD ratio of 88.47%.
Balance Sheet parameters
Assets
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Cash and bank balances
99,732
114,454
(13%)
Government securities
308,076
247,816
24%
Other securities
88,066
83,711
5%
Total investments
396,142
331,527
19%
3.70 
2.82 
2.02 
1.43 
1.28 
1.05 
0.73 
0.39 
0.31 
0.33 
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24
Mar-25
Gross and Net NPA (%)
Gross NPA as % to Gross customer assets
Net NPA as % to Net customer assets

Management’s discussion and analysis
241
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Retail advances
622,897
583,265
7%
Corporate advances
299,393
278,149
8%
SME advances
118,521
103,654
14%
Total advances
1,040,811
965,068
8%
Fixed assets
6,292
5,685
11%
Other assets1
66,953
60,474
11%
Total assets
1,609,930
1,477,209
9%
1 includes Priority Sector Lending deposits of `14,450 crores (previous year `21,557 crores)
Total assets increased by 9% to `1,609,930 crores as on 31 March, 2025 from `1,477,209 crores as on 31 March, 2024, 
driven by 8% growth in advances and 19% growth in investments.
Advances
Total advances of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 increased by 
8% to `1,040,811 crores from `965,068 crores as on 31 March, 
2024. Retail advances comprised 60% of total advances and 
grew by 7% to `622,897 crores, corporate advances comprised 
29% of total advances and grew by 8% to `299,393 crores and 
SME advances constituted 11% of total advances and grew by 
14% to `118,521 crores. 
Domestic advances of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 grew by 
8% to `1,011,101, crores from `936,465 crores as on 31 March, 
2024. Further, domestic corporate advances of the Bank as 
on 31 March, 2025 increased by 8% to `271,471 crores from 
`251,331 crores as on 31 March, 2024.
Home loans remain the largest retail segment and accounted for 
27% of retail loans, rural lending (Bharat Banking) 16%, loans 
against property (LAP) 12%, personal loans (PL) and credit cards 
(CC) were 19%, auto loans 9% and Small Banking Business (SBB) 
were 11%, while non-schematic loans comprising loan against 
deposits and other loans accounted for 6%. 
Investments
The investment portfolio of the Bank grew by 19% to `396,142 
crores. Investments in Government and approved securities, 
increased by 24% to `308,076 crores. Other investments, 
including corporate debt securities, increased by 5% to `88,066 
crores. Out of these, 66% are in Held to Maturity (HTM) category, 
12% of investments are Available for Sale (AFS), 20% are in Fair Value through Profit & Loss (FVTPL) category and 2% are 
investments in Subsidiaries and Associate.
Other Assets
Other assets of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 increased to `66,953 crores from `60,474 crores as on 31 March, 2024, 
primarily on account of increase in Mark-to-Market (MTM) asset on forex and derivative contracts amounting to `20,496 
crores as on 31 March, 2025 as compared to `12,430 crores as on 31 March, 2024 which was partially offset by decrease in 
Priority Sector Shortfall deposits from `21,557 crores as on 31 March, 2024 to `14,450 crores on 31 March, 2025.
(` in crores)
 
331,304 
400,142 
487,571 
583,265 
622,897 
224,062 
232,582 
268,334
278,149
299,393 
59,034 
75,223 
89,398 
103,654 
118,521 
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24
Mar-25
Retail
Corporate
SME
Advances
Retail Advances as % to Total Advances
54%
57%
58%
60%
60%
Mar-25
Mar-24
Mar-23
Mar-22
Mar-21

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
242
Liabilities and shareholder’s funds

 (` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Capital
619
617
0.3%
Reserves and Surplus
177,998
149,618
19%
Total shareholder’s funds
178,617
150,235
19%
Employee stock option outstanding (net)
1,108
827
34%
Deposits
1,172,952
1,068,641
10%
-	
Current account deposits
166,799
157,268
6%
-	
Savings bank deposits
311,389
302,132
3%
-	
CASA
478,188
459,400
4%
-	
Term deposits
694,764
609,241
14%
Borrowings
184,147
196,812
(6%)
-	
In India
149,839
160,734
(7%)
	
-	
Infra bonds
20,551
22,331
( 8%)
-	
Outside India
34,308
36,078
(5%)
Other liabilities and provisions
73,106
60,694
20%
Total liabilities and shareholder’s funds
1,609,930
1,477,209
9%
Shareholder’s funds
Shareholder’s funds of the Bank increased from `150,235 crores as on 31 March, 2024 to `178,617  crores as on 31 March, 
2025. This is mainly on account of profits earned during the year.
Deposits
The total deposits of the Bank increased by 10% to `1,172,952 
crores against `1,068,641 crores last year. Savings Bank 
deposits reported a growth of 3% to `311,389 crores, while 
Current Account deposits reported increase of 6% to `166,799 
crores. As on 31 March, 2025, low-cost CASA deposits stood 
at `478,188 crores, and constituted 41% of total deposits. On 
a daily average basis,  Savings Bank deposits, increased by 1% 
to `285,104 crores, while Current Account deposits grew by 
9% to `128,315 crores. The percentage share of CASA in total 
deposits, on a daily average basis, was at 39.26% compared to 
42.54% last year.
Borrowings
The total borrowings of the Bank declined by 6% from `196,812 crores in fiscal 2024 to `184,147 crores in fiscal 2025. The 
Bank has issued debt instrument amounting to `3,925 crores in the form of “long term bonds against Infrastructure and 
affordable housing” (Infrastructure bonds) in India. Further, Subordinated Debt amounting to `850 crores and Infrastructure 
Bonds amounting to `5,705 crores got matured during the year.
Other Liabilities and provisions
Other liabilities of the Bank increased by 20% over the year to `73,106 crores as on 31 March, 2025 from `60,694 crores 
as on 31 March, 2024, which is mainly on account of increase in Mark-to-Market (MTM) liability on forex and derivative 
contracts to `19,929 crores as compared to `12,806 crores last year.
Deposits
Mar-25
Mar-24
Mar-23
Mar-22
Mar-21
113,276
204,473
380,237
127,557
242,449
451,966
149,120
297,416
500,409
157,268
302,132
609,241
166,799
311,389
694,764
Current
Term
Savings
(` in crores)

Management’s discussion and analysis
243
Contingent Liability
(` in crores)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
% change
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts
1,477
2,453
(40%)
Liability for partly paid investments
127
-
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts
1,256,589
840,387
50%
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts
1,369,593
821,190
67%
-	
Interest Rate Swaps, Currency Swaps, Forward Rate Agreement & Interest 
Rate Futures
1,236,293
779,085
59%
-	
Foreign Currency Options
133,300
42,105
217%
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
1,41,189
128,127
10%
-	
In India
121,699
106,812
14%
-	
Outside India
19,490
21,315
(9%)
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
55,341
59,087
(6%)
Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
51,332
57,648
(11%)
Total
2,875,648
1,908,892
51%
Capital Management
The Bank continues its endeavour for greater capital efficiency and shoring up its capital adequacy to enhance shareholder value.
The Bank’s overall capital adequacy ratio (CAR) under Basel III stood at 17.07% at the end of the year, well above the 
benchmark requirement of 11.50% stipulated by Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Of this, the Common Equity Tier I (CET I) CAR 
was 14.67% (against minimum regulatory requirement of 8.00%) and Tier I CAR was 15.07% (against minimum regulatory 
requirement of 9.50%). As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s Tier II CAR under Basel III stood at 2%.
The organic business of the Bank accreted 93 bps (net) of CET I in fiscal 2025.
Movement of CET I during fiscal 2025
%
CET I as on 31 March, 2024
13.74
Accretion
2.37
Consumption
(1.44)
CET 1 as on 31 March, 2025
14.67
The Bank’s Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) to Asset ratio as at the end of fiscal 2025 was 72%. The Bank’s capital position 
continues to be strong and is sufficiently robust for it to pursue growth opportunities with adequate liquidity buffers.
The following table sets forth the capital, risk-weighted assets and capital adequacy ratios computed as on 31 March, 2025 
and 31 March, 2024 in accordance with the applicable RBI guidelines under Basel III.
(` in crores)
PARTICULARS
2024-25
2023-24
Tier I capital
173,944
147,633
Tier II capital
23,113
25,231
Out of which
-	
Tier II capital instruments
14,846
16,992
-	
Other eligible for Tier II capital
8,267
8,239
Total capital qualifying for computation of capital adequacy ratio
197,057
172,864
Total risk-weighted assets and contingencies
1,154,075
1,039,313
Total capital adequacy ratio
17.07%
16.63%
Out of above
-	
Common equity tier I capital ratio
14.67%
13.74%
-	
Tier I capital ratio
15.07%
14.20%
-	
Tier II capital ratio
2.00%
2.43%

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
244
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
In 2019, we launched our ‘Growth Profitability and Sustainability’ strategy, also known as the ‘House of GPS’. Over the years, 
as part of annual reviews of the House of GPS, we have added areas of distinctiveness, key themes for the Bank to focus 
on and other changes to reflect the priorities of the Bank and accounting for the changing environment. The House of GPS, 
as it stands today, continues to reflect our aspirations and remain relevant. Our overall strategy, and specific business and 
function strategies, are aligned with our core philosophy of GPS –
•	
Growth: Accelerate deposits growth, focus on profitable advances, achievement of leadership positions across our 
focus areas, drive One Axis-led growth across the Group and scale-up of subsidiaries and Axis Digital Bank
•	
Profitability: Focus on profitability and NIM, growth in fee income, improve operating efficiency, optimise costs, 
strengthen collections infrastructure and maintain control over credit cost
•	
Sustainability: Strengthen governance across the Group with an integrated assurance approach to enhance risk 
management, robust audit and compliance culture, retain high-quality talent, strengthen underwriting, technology and 
analytical capabilities and a robust operations platform
As part of the GPS initiatives, under the ‘One Axis’ vision, we are focused on creating a ‘one-stop’ solution for banking needs 
by integrating the strengths of the subsidiaries with the Bank.
We have several noteworthy achievements in fiscal 2025. Our best-in-class mobile banking application, digital/analytical 
capabilities, and emerging technology, such as generative AI, gives us the right to win in digital banking. The Bank focuses on 
reimagining end-to-end journeys, transforming the core and becoming a partner of choice for ecosystems. We successfully 
completed integrating Citi’s consumer business in July 2024. While the macro-economic environment continues to evolve 
amidst geo-political uncertainties, India remains a bright economic spot, giving us an incredible opportunity to tap into 
the growing capex/infrastructure/investment boom. We have a self-sustaining capital structure with our CET-1 accretion 
adequate to fund organic growth. Our transformation projects have enabled us to reach closer to our GPS ambitions – 
‘Neo for Business’ (offers end-to-end digital journeys with DIY onboarding, for banking as well as beyond-banking needs 
of MSMEs), ‘Siddhi’ (a super app that empowers our colleagues to engage seamlessly with customers), granularisation and 
premiumisation of liability franchise, focus on cost optimisation, drive collections transformation and set up next generation 
collections architecture for the Bank. We have also started yielding visible results due to our investments in long-term 
‘distinctiveness’ drivers – ‘Digital 2.0’ (becoming India’s Best Tech Bank), Bharat Banking (tapping the high growth potential 
in rural and semi-urban markets), ‘Sparsh’ (customer obsession program to aid improvement in NPS rankings).
We remain committed to our GPS strategy of working towards Growth, Profitability and Sustainability over the medium-
term and aim to become a resilient, all-weather franchise.
Retail Banking
The Bank has over the last decade built a strong Retail Banking franchise that continues to be a key driver of the Bank’s overall 
growth strategy. The Bank’s focused customer-centric approach, strong and differentiated product offerings, along with its 
wide distribution network remain the core pillars through which it continues to serve the financial needs and aspirations of 
its customers.
The Retail business segment provides a complete bouquet of products across deposits, transaction services, wealth 
management and lending products for retail customers, small businesses, NRIs (non-resident Indians) and retail institutions, 
backed by innovative, digital-first solutions.
The Bank offers a wide range of retail liability products, including savings accounts, current accounts, fixed deposits, recurring 
deposits, and other customized deposit options, catering to the diverse needs of customers. Retail lending products include 
home loans, loans against property, automobile loans, two-wheeler loans, commercial vehicle loans, personal loans, gold 
loans, education loans, credit cards, small business banking loans and agriculture loans among others.
The Bank’s Retail Banking business unit also offers other products and services such as debit and credit cards, forex cards, 
bill payment services and wealth management services. The Bank also distributes third party products such as mutual funds, 
life and non-life insurance policies, Government bonds, etc.

Management’s discussion and analysis
245
The Bank’s strategy in Retail has been to gain a larger share of the wallet of existing customers, acquire quality new customers, 
and deliver a best-in-class experience, thus building customer loyalty. In line with its customer centric approach, the Bank 
continued its strong focus on holistic customer lifecycle management, led by its strong data analytics and technology, to 
engage in meaningful conversations and provide the right product proposition. The Bank has made strong progress in 
digitization of sales, service, and branch operations to offer seamless and intelligent banking experience to its customers.
The Bank believes that it is well-positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities in the Indian retail financial services market, 
led by its strong liability franchise, well diversified products portfolio and robust data analytics and technological capabilities.
During the fiscal year 2025, the Retail segment contributed 73% to the Bank’s deposits in the form of CASA and Retail Term 
Deposits; 60% to the Bank’s advances and 72% to the Bank’s fee income.
Retail Deposits
The Bank has made significant progress in key areas, particularly in acquiring savings accounts (SA). The acquisition channels 
have become more self-sufficient, resulting in a 13%  Y-o-Y growth in Retail SA. By strategically increasing the average ticket 
size in metro and urban markets, there was a 17% Y-o-Y increase in the average ticket size. Additionally, efforts to attract 
premium customers led to a 140 basis points rise in the share of premium customers. New-to-bank (NTB) salary uploads 
improved by 18% Y-o-Y.
Operational improvements also contributed significantly to growth. Over 50 process enhancements reduced the account 
opening turnaround time from 7 days to 3 days, improving onboarding efficiency. The increased use of the “Siddhi” App, 
seamless cross-sell journeys, and smart nudges enhanced the overall ease of doing business for both customers and 
employees. Furthermore, the introduction of an effort-based credit architecture for term deposit led to a 41% increase in 
inflows for March, 2025.
The focus on premiumization of deposits will continue by increasing the share of premium accounts in overall acquisitions, 
targeting high-value customers. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we have shifted towards premiumization in 
mass market variants, focusing on high-value customer segments while reducing reliance on lower-variant offerings in 
metro and urban branches. This strategy aligns with market dynamics and our commitment to enhancing profitability 
and brand positioning. We aim to further strengthen our premium product portfolio, leverage technology, and enhance 
customer experiences. This strategic focus will drive sustainable long-term growth and establish leadership in the 
premium banking segment. We have also streamlined processes by reducing friction points, enhancing digital journeys, and 
empowering service channels like phone banking, leading to fewer complaints and improved Net Promoter Scores (NPS). The 
Bank maintained a steady share of CASA deposits at 41% of total deposits at the end of fiscal 2025.
The Corporate Salary Suvidha proposition has been further explored to make better inroads into corporate clients. Key 
requirements for corporates wanting to disburse reimbursements to their employees were activated both physically and 
digitally through Employee Reimbursement Accounts, ensuring easy and quick conversions compared to paper-based accounts. 
Worksites in corporates were transformed and innovated beyond the traditional helpdesk approach. We added brand 
partnerships with the largest electric two-wheeler companies, multinational electronics, and consumer durable companies for 
deeper employee engagement at worksites and induction programs.
We also launched a Special Suvidha Masterclass series with curated topics such as digital fraud prevention, tax filing, succession 
planning, financial and estate planning, and will writing through virtual sessions for employees in top corporates.
The Bank continues to focus on fraud prevention and regulatory features, strengthening the onboarding mechanism with 
thorough verification of customer details via NSDL and UIDAI checks, complete authentication of customer contact details, 
enhanced customer profiling checks, and redesigning the geo-tagging process for address verification.
Digital banking is enhancing the retail liabilities franchise by enabling the Bank to source more accounts through seamless 
onboarding, personalized offerings, and data-driven engagement. Additionally, digital banking strengthens the overall 
customer relationship value by integrating savings, investments, and lending products into a unified experience, fostering long-
term loyalty and higher wallet share.
In the transformational space centered around customer experience, the Bank launched a Lean Digital Savings Onboarding 
journey for existing assets and payments customers, where all their demographic details and Know-your-customer (KYC) 

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
246
are pre-filled in the savings application, and only incremental or missing details are fetched from the customer along with 
the necessary initial funding. In the assisted mobile-based onboarding space, the Bank is an early adopter of UIDAI’s facial 
recognition technology-based KYC, allowing customers to be onboarded based on face match with customer records in the 
Aadhar repository. The Bank also enabled a savings application tracker that allows customers to check real-time updates and 
status of the savings application from submission to account activation seamlessly.
The Bank continued to focus on retail term deposits throughout the year by leveraging new individual customers through its 
strong acquisition channels. This was complemented by the revamp of its journeys on digital channels, such as the ability to 
book fixed deposits (FD) from outside funds and booking non-callable FDs online. Individual current account (CA) customers 
can now seamlessly book FDs via WhatsApp. Total term deposits increased by 14% Y-o-Y in fiscal 2025.
During the year, the Bank introduced several new product propositions, including the ‘ARISE’ savings account for women and 
the Doctors Banking Program, to offer the best banking services and life experiences under one bouquet. Premiumization of 
the deposits franchise continues to be an important imperative for the bank.
ARISE Savings Account
During the year, the Bank launched the ARISE savings account, a thoughtfully designed proposition for women seeking 
financial security, independence, and growth. Women customers have always been at the forefront of disciplined saving, 
often maintaining higher balances in fixed deposits and mutual funds.
With ARISE, we aim to not only enhance our deposit focus but also provide a product that caters to women’s unique financial 
needs, whether they are balancers securing their family’s future, simplicity seekers building emergency funds, or go-getters 
with long-term saving goals. When we solve for women, we solve for everyone.
Doctors Banking Program
In line with the premiumization strategy of the Bank, we launched a Doctors Banking Program specifically targeting doctors 
as a micro-segment, which constitutes a high-income cohort. We intend to take a holistic “One Axis” proposition to them 
with this program, catering to all their needs comprehensively and increasing cross-selling opportunities for the Bank, 
thereby building stickiness with these customers.
Branch Banking
To serve the customers better and deepen relationships with them, the Bank has organically built a well-diversified branch 
network over the years. The Bank continues to look at the segments and demographic areas that are relevant to the Retail 
Banking strategy, before setting up a branch. The new branch additions have been balanced and well diversified across 
Metro and Urban locations and RuSu (Rural and Semi Urban) regions as the Bank continues to focus on improving the market 
share across districts led by micro market focused approach.
During fiscal 2025, the Bank crossed a milestone of 5,800 branches as it opened 500 new branches, thereby reinforcing its 
commitment towards making banking solutions accessible to diversified segments of customers. As on 31 March, 2025, the 
Bank had a network of 6,265 branch banking outlets with 5,865 branches, 3 Digital Banking Units, 11 extension counters, 
152 specialised branches (lending centers) and 234 Business Correspondent and Banking Outlets (BCBO). The Bank also has 
extensive network of 13,941 ATMs and Recyclers, which not only handle the cash deposits and withdrawals, but also serve 
as self-service and fulfilment centres. The Bank’s geographical reach in India now extends to 692 districts across 28 states 
and 7 union territories.
The Bank promotes a fair and equitable relationship between the Bank and its customers. The Bank treats all customers fairly 
and does not discriminate customers on any grounds such as gender, age, religion, caste, literacy, economic status, or physical 
disability. To cater to the needs of “persons with disabilities”, the Bank has enabled its ATMs with braille keypad and talking 
functionality (voice guidance). In respect of Bank branches which are not easily accessible, ramps are constructed wherever 
feasible, for facilitating access to persons with disabilities. Adequate seating arrangements and support for banking services 
are provided. Certain large offices have special equipment, such as stretchers and wheelchairs for ease of movement. We 
also provide doorstep banking for ease of operations for senior citizens and persons with disabilities. Customers in need of 
assistance can contact the designated officer at their branch or may bring it to the notice of the Nodal Officer.

Management’s discussion and analysis
247
Retail Lending
Retail lending continues to be a high growth sector in India, driven by a large affluent customer base, a young population, and 
growing needs of the Indian consumer.
The Bank’s retail loan book exhibited well diversified growth across the portfolio. Throughout the fiscal year, the Bank 
focused on driving growth in prioritized products and preferred customer segments, which was facilitated by its advanced 
analytics-driven underwriting and comprehensive risk management framework.
The Bank’s retail lending strategy is focused on deepening relationships with the existing-to-bank (ETB) customers via its 
branch network and digital platforms, while also focusing on select segments to drive new-to-bank volumes.
The Bank has embarked on multiple transformation projects across product segments to introduce end-to-end digital 
journeys for customer onboarding across channels, enhance customer experience, improve employee productivity, and 
reduce turnaround times.
Siddhi, the Bank’s comprehensive mobile platform, now supports the entire frontline retail lending team, enabling faster loan 
application processing, while offering a holistic view of the customer to the sales architecture, and a tightened sales rhythm 
to drive productivity.
The Bank’s mortgages segment comprising of Home Loans and Loans against Property (LAP) delivered sustained growth, 
with improving profit metrics in fiscal 2025. During the year, the Bank made progress in its Digital Home Loan journeys by 
providing real-time sanctions to customers at builder sites. The Bank has also introduced an e-Disbursement journey which 
includes capabilities of e-NACH setup, digital payments, e-stamping, & e-signing for document execution. This has enabled 
simplification of customer onboarding, with a reduced turnaround time.
We have seen moderation in unsecured loan growth at an overall industry level, primarily driven by Credit Cards and Personal 
Loans. The Bank continues to grow the personal loan segment in a risk-calibrated manner through various initiatives, 
including enhanced end-to-end digital journeys. ~79% of the Bank’s personal loans originate from internal customers, with a 
significant portion coming through pre-qualified programs, ensuring portfolio risk remains within defined guardrails. 
A strategic program to digitize education loans is underway which will enable real-time integration with channel partners.
The Bank continued building strong OEM and corporate relationship in the Wheels business, and focused on high yielding 
sub-segment of pre-owned vehicle financing. The Bank’s digital lending platform (Maximus) was launched in fiscal 2023 and 
within 2 years ~72% of new car loans are digitally processed through this platform. This fiscal, the Bank also launched end-
to-end digital journey for two-wheeler loans, with 100% digital disbursement.
The Bank continues to invest in sustainable and profitable growth by expanding organic distribution, increasing share from 
channel partners, improving risk management frameworks, and strengthening our processes.
Bharat Banking
India’s economic landscape is undergoing a significant transformation, marked by robust GDP growth, rapid digital adoption, 
and targeted financial initiatives. These developments are particularly impactful in rural and semi-urban regions, where 
enhanced connectivity, digital services and financial inclusion are unlocking new opportunities. Embracing the theme “Har 
Raah Dil Se Open,” we are dedicated to leverage these advancements to unlock opportunities across rural and semi-urban 
landscapes. By integrating our existing infrastructure with digital technologies, the aim is to provide seamless financial 
services, empower communities, grow our presence in white spaces and contribute to the nation’s inclusive growth journey.
Our distribution network has expanded to 2,736 branches in RuSu markets, complemented by the 28k+ strong Common 
Service Centers (CSC) Village Level Entrepreneurs network. We have enabled additional 250+ branches in fiscal 2025. We 
have also expanded our partnership network to 25+ partners with large names across industries such as Agri-techs, Fintechs, 
corporates and NBFCs’ with deeper rural presence leveraging their network to cater to the last mile customers.
Bharat Banking continues to deliver on the growth trajectory with advances and deposits growing 7% and 9% in fiscal 2025 
Y-o-Y, from the RuSu markets.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
248
The digital transformation journey continued in fiscal 2025. Our key focus on digitization is e-KYC, e-NACH, e-Sign and 
e-Stamp along with pre-screening for early decisioning (across verticals). Farm Mechanization was the 1st business vertical 
to go-live in SFDC (LOS) with 100% adoption (for New tractors). Our MFI-retail journey is end-to-end (e2e) digital with 
digital agreement (supported by e-Sign/e-Stamp). As on March 2025, we have also enabled Micro-loan in this new e2e digital 
platform. In fiscal 2026, we target to onboard 3 key verticals in SFDC digital – Bharat Enterprise B2B retail, Farmer funding 
(KCC) and Micro-LAP. This aside, we are instilling operation risk control measures on our Gold loan journey through digital 
means and plan to offer Digital instant CASA journey for all our Bharat Banking verticals, to drive our deposit books.
As One Axis, we continue to drive focused initiatives to expand in Bharat’s key ecosystems. One of our initiatives, “Mandi 
Mitra” aims to capture the entire value chain within the Mandi ecosystem. Pertaining to the top 100 high-turnover Mandis, 
aiming for a 10% annual increase in the Bank’s assets and liabilities share. With expansion into 423 Mandis and permanent 
branding in key locations, we are strengthening our presence, offering a comprehensive product suite, and leveraging data-
driven lending solutions.
Customer referral program with “Connecting the Dots” initiative yielded 97,000+ conversions in fiscal 2025, and has now 
entered Phase 2, impacting over 14 lakh beneficiaries through deeper engagement in both Bharat and non-Bharat branches. 
We continue to focus on building a partnership ecosystem. Through collaborations with CSC, ITC Agribusiness, and others, 
we have delivered over `30,000 crores in disbursements and opened 9 lakh+ liability accounts over the past 3 years. In fiscal 
2025 alone, the partnership channel contributed `10,000 crores in disbursements, 2 lakh+ CASA accounts, and launched 
innovations like Gold on UPI.
Fiscal 2025 has been a year of prudent growth in the Agri and MFI sector, with a balanced approach to managing external 
risks while steadfastly supporting rural entrepreneurs and fostering financial inclusion.
Risk & Compliance measures are being strengthened by aligning with regulatory requirements for priority sector lending 
(PSL), ensuring adherence to evolving guidelines. Additionally, a structured approach to collections is being implemented, 
leveraging digital payment solutions and on-ground engagement models to improve recovery efficiency. The Bank continues 
to drive financial inclusion across the country through Government Sponsored Schemes, improving financial literacy through 
trainings, working with BC partners to distribute banking products, and taking several actions to increase credit & deposit 
penetration in RuSu markets.
Retail Payments
The payments industry is experiencing rapid transformation, driven by significant changes in customer spending behavior 
and a dynamic regulatory environment. A notable surge in non-cash transactions reflects a growing preference for cashless 
payment methods. This shift is further accelerated by the government’s strong push for digital payments, which has led to 
wider customer adoption. As a result, the industry is witnessing substantial progress and unlocking vast opportunities for 
continued growth.
The payments business remains a cornerstone of the Bank’s Retail Banking strategy, serving as the primary touchpoint 
of the franchise by enhancing customer engagement and driving profitability. The Bank continues to prioritize customer 
acquisition, particularly through the issuance of fee-based cards that demonstrate higher activation and usage rates. 
Simultaneously, it focuses on deepening engagement with low-risk customers by implementing targeted portfolio programs. 
These initiatives are supported by robust risk management practices designed to mitigate early-stage risks from vulnerable 
customer segments. The Bank had ~15 million cards in force with a market share of ~14% as of 31 March, 2025. The credit 
cards business also touched the highest ever yearly spends of `226,645 crores, up 12% Y-o-Y, yet another milestone for the 
business.
The Bank has established co-brand partnerships with leading players across diverse sectors including e-commerce, fintech, 
telecom, fuel, retail, airlines, and consumer durables enabling it to cater to the unique needs of every customer segment 
with differentiated offerings. These strategic alliances are a testament to the Bank’s position as a preferred partner, driven 
by its strong product suite and supported by a robust and resilient technology infrastructure. The Bank’s ‘Flipkart Axis Bank 
Credit Card’ co-branded card achieved yet another significant milestone of ~4 million cards, establishing itself as one of the 
most powerful co-branded card offering since its introduction in July 2019. The Bank’s partnership card spends continued 
to exceed industry benchmarks in terms of activation and card usage, with better risk outcomes.

Management’s discussion and analysis
249
The Bank now provides cards across all four networks, offering customers enhanced flexibility and choice. By expanding its 
portfolio of proprietary and co-branded cards, the Bank is fortifying its partnerships across these networks. Additionally, 
the Bank has elevated its ultra-high-net-worth individual (UHNI) offerings with the introduction of the prestigious “Primus 
Card.”
Over the past few years, the Bank has significantly enhanced its technology platform to support greater processing capacity, 
integrate additional APIs, and ensure compliance with the Payment Application Data Security Standard (PA DSS). During the 
year, several key digital initiatives—such as end-to-end digital issuance, Video KYC, and real-time income estimation—have 
been implemented with real-time decisioning on partner platforms. These advancements have collectively contributed to 
a more seamless and enriched customer experience. The Cards business continues to operate within clearly defined risk 
guardrails. Strengthened onboarding controls to address emerging early-stage risks, along with more resilient collection 
practices, have contributed to maintaining healthy asset quality. This disciplined risk management approach has empowered 
the Bank to confidently deepen customer engagement and drive sustained business growth.
In the Merchant Acquiring Business (MAB), the Bank has maintained its position as a leading merchant acquirer, achieving a 
terminal market share of ~20% as of March 2025. The Bank’s ongoing investments in technology have significantly enhanced 
both product offerings and the overall merchant user experience.
The Bank continues to deliver a robust value proposition in the MAB segment, offering a diverse range of products tailored to 
various markets, business segments, and geographic regions. The year saw the launch of Neo for Merchants, a comprehensive 
mobile application designed to serve all merchant payment needs. Additionally, we introduced the NFC Soundbox, capable 
of accepting both UPI and contactless card transactions, enhancing payment convenience and efficiency.
As part of our merchant stack, the Bank excels in providing deep integrations and developing customized solutions, 
demonstrating our commitment to addressing the unique requirements of our clients across different sectors.
Under the ‘One Axis’ approach, the MAB team is successful in being the Bank to the merchant offering liabilities, assets, 
and third-party products. Collaborations with ecosystem solution providers have enabled segment-specific solutions to 
meet diverse customer needs. These initiatives have driven strong growth in cross-selling, high-value CA deposits, and asset 
sourcing.
In the UPI payments domain, the Bank remains committed to differentiating itself as a leading payment franchise in the 
country and striving to deliver superior customer and merchant experience with a keen focus on customer-centric innovations. 
The Bank consolidated its strong presence in the UPI space with a market share of 33.3% as Payer PSP by volumes as of 
March 2025 as against 26% in March 2024, achieving and sustaining the number 1 position amongst Payer PSP banks since 
August 2024. This was achieved on the back of a two-pronged strategy of partnerships with new fintech players and 
continued deepening of existing partnerships with tech giants like PhonePe, Google Pay, Amazon and WhatsApp. Additionally, 
the Bank maintained its status as a preferred acquirer, securing a 19% market share in P2M acquiring throughput as of 
March 2025. During the year, the Bank went live with several new lending partnerships, providing them payments solutions 
while receiving corporate flows through these partnerships. There was sustained growth of Credit on UPI for both issuing 
and acquiring and new launches such as UPI Circle which further demonstrated the Bank’s capability to drive the organic 
volume growth of UPI transactions. The Bank now has more than 183 crore customer VPAs registered as on 31 March, 2025.
The Bank continues to focus on building a robust IT infrastructure and upgrading IT capabilities due to which the Bank has 
one of the lowest technical decline rates in the industry and is amongst the leading payments solution provider.
Retail Forex and Remittance business
To facilitate cross border transactions, the Bank offers Forex Cards, Inward and Outward remittance services to its retail 
customers through branch and digital channels.
On Forex Cards, the Bank continues to focus on strengthening its digital journeys with new enhancements such as digital 
reloads and automated discounts based on customer value score. These initiatives have helped grow the digital footprint to 
over 90% on all fresh issuances for retail customers. The bulk upload feature introduced for corporates enables seamless 
and efficient reloading of multiple cards simultaneously thus saving time and offering convenience to corporates. Curated 
offers on the Multi-currency Forex Card were launched during the year to cater to customers travelling overseas for leisure, 
to countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. Customer Value Propositions (CVP’s) on the forex card are being further 

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
250
refined to bring sharper focus to three customer segments basis purpose of travel viz. student, business and leisure. Our 
long-term growth strategy is aligned to building distribution and scale in these three travel segments for Forex Cards.
To complement the Bank’s deposit mobilization drive, customers have been encouraged to bring in their remittances from 
abroad using the inward wire transfer and digital Remit Money portal, offered by Axis Bank. Customers were segmented 
basis their residential status and transaction history, among other variables. Curated offers on pricing were offered to drive 
customer loyalty and repeat transactions.
Customer convenience and ease of doing business has been at the forefront of the Bank’s endeavors to simplify product 
journeys. ‘T’ day (same day) credit on inward wire transfer remittances has been enabled making Axis Bank, one of the 
leading players to offer this service in the industry. Funds get credited to the customer’s account the same day as against 
the erstwhile lag of one day. Additionally, the Bank has reviewed and increased the purpose codes for STP (straight through 
processing) from 5 to 41 and the STP transaction limits have also been increased from `15 lakhs to `25 lakhs. This enables 
transactions to get processed faster for the specified list of purpose codes, without the requirement of documentation.
Remit Money, the Bank’s digital platform, now offers 3X higher limits and faster transfers on the USD-INR corridor. 
Customers can benefit from enhanced transaction limits from $10,000 to $30,000 on self-transfers, apart from competitive 
pricing offered on the portal. All Citi customers were seamlessly migrated to this platform in July 2024. Customers can also 
use the Bank’s vostro partnerships with Correspondent Banks and Exchange Houses to remit funds to India, apart from wire 
transfer and remit money services.
On Outward Remittances, the Bank launched overseas remittances to GIFT city through digital channels. This allows 
customers the convenience of transacting digitally without the need to visit the branch. The Bank has also invested in 
building technical solutions which can be integrated through API’s with strategic partners to expand the acquisition network 
through this tie up. The Bank’s growing partnerships with fintechs and online stockbrokers has led to 64% of transactions in 
fiscal 2025 getting processed digitally as against 45% last year.
During the year, the Bank has complied with all regulatory guidelines as per the directives released by RBI and other 
authorities relating to cross border remittances. System level changes have been successfully implemented to validate the 
customer’s PAN details with that available on the NSDL portal. Projects related to system level integration of the Bank’s 
forex related systems with that of RBI for the purpose of checking the LRS (Liberalized Remittance Scheme) limit utilization 
across banks are under development. As per the Union Budget 2025 announced by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Bank 
has implemented revision of TCS (Tax Collected at Source) limits from `7 lakhs to `10 lakhs which came into effect from 
1 April, 2025.
The Bank handled Retail Forex volumes of USD $5.4 billion during fiscal 2025 and has an active customer base of ~4 lakhs 
on Retail Forex products.
Third Party Distribution
Axis Bank is one of the leading distributors of third-party products which includes Mutual funds, Life insurance, General & 
Health insurance products, National pension system, Digital Gold.
The Bank offers comprehensive bouquet of investment, protection and retirement solutions that caters to the diverse needs 
of each customer segment.
In fiscal 2025, third party distribution business contributed significantly to the Bank’s retail fee income growth on back of its 
strong partnerships, contextual product launches, wide distribution strength and digital initiatives.
As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s mutual fund assets under management (AUM) stood at `91,661 crores, reaffirming its 
position as the third largest banking distributor in the industry. The Bank serviced a mutual fund customer base of ~12 
lakhs as on 31 March, 2025, reflecting growing investor trust and engagement.
Leveraging insights from its dedicated in-house research desk, the Bank curates and recommends mutual fund schemes 
based on a robust combination of qualitative and quantitative parameters. At present the Bank distributes mutual fund 
products from 25 leading Asset management companies (AMCs) through its extensive branch network and digital platforms, 
aligning investment offerings with customers’ life stages and financial goals.

Management’s discussion and analysis
251
In addition to mutual funds, the Bank also provides access to select Alternate Investment products from SEBI-registered 
providers, offering customers a broader range of wealth creation opportunities.
The Bank offers online as well as offline trading services to its customers in collaboration with Axis Securities Ltd. under the 
brand name Axis Direct. Through its branches, the Bank has sourced ~6.36 million total customers for Axis Direct with 7.7 
lakh customers being added in fiscal 2025.
The Bank continued to be one of the largest Bancassurance player in terms of both Life and Non-Life Insurance volume 
among private Banks with an annual fee growth of 39% in Life Insurance and 11% in Non-Life insurance in fiscal 2025.
The Bank’s strategy of adopting a Digital first approach, tailormade solutions in Health Insurance with segmental product 
launches led to growth of 13% in topline premium placement for its insurance partners.
By securing more than 1.6 lakh+ retail accounts for National Pension System product, the Bank improved its retail market 
share to 21% from 13% in fiscal 2025 and thereby becoming number 1 in POP space in terms of new business. Continued 
innovation in this space includes Digital integration journeys in core Bank platforms and enabling SIP option for customers 
to invest.
The Bank has an innovative user-friendly digital interface - Axis Marketplace - to facilitate distribution of insurance 
solutions. Axis Marketplace offers third-party products integrated directly with insurance partner systems thereby 
providing seamless journeys and instant issuance facilities.
The Bank continues to focus on reimagining end to end journeys and build a digital ecosystem for Investment Products on 
its mobile banking app and internet banking to ensure seamless access anytime, anywhere.
Wealth Management
The Bank’s wealth management business has been strategically built out over the years to cater to the evolving needs of 
its affluent customer base. We recognise that the wealth management needs differ for our customer cohorts viz. affluent 
salaried customers, entrepreneurs, senior citizens or NRIs. At the core of our proposition, is our unwavering commitment to 
grow and preserve customers’ wealth. Accordingly, we have partnered with many players in the asset management space, 
to offer select schemes across Portfolio Management Services (PMS), Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs), Debt and fixed 
income, and mutual funds. In fiscal 2025, we started new partnerships with 3 mutual fund AMCs, and 17 PMS and AIFs, post 
careful due diligence, to expand options for our customers.
The overall assets under management facilitated by the Bank for its customers grew to more than `1 trillion as on 
31 March, 2025. The number of new SIPs booked by our customers through digital as well as physical modes grew from 
~5 lakhs in fiscal 2024 to more than 6 lakhs in fiscal 2025, with ~80% contributed through digital channels.
The Bank also has a team of wealth experts who have deep knowledge of diverse wealth products (PMS, AIFs, Debt and fixed 
income, Mutual funds). They are supported by an in-house economic research, asset management partners and the Axis franchise 
across our subsidiaries to meticulously create investment options based on our clients’ financial goals. This strategy ensures that 
the Bank provides all its customers the very best in products & services based on their needs and profile.
In line with changing customer behaviour and preferences, the Bank has continued to deliver and enhance intuitive digital 
journeys in its digital platforms. Our clients can now invest across asset classes be it digital gold, NPS, Mutual funds, 
insurance, or sovereign bonds seamlessly through our mobile banking app – ‘open’. The digital channels continue to be 
among the best in industry and contributed over `8,600 crores of MF gross sales, 102% growth over last year. We also 
launched co-origination of MF investments through SIP along with saving bank account opening for our customers, which 
has been well accepted by the salaried customers of the Bank, who find the ability to start an SIP very useful in their wealth 
management journey.
In fiscal 2025, Bank also launched a digital journey which provides our customers the option to open demat and trading 
accounts simultaneously along with opening of savings account. This has been well accepted by our customers, by simplifying 
the onboarding experience for them. In Q4 FY25, we opened more than 1 lakh accounts through this bundled proposition.
During the year, the core wealth management backend system was upgraded to handle much larger scale of transactions and 
we continue to invest in making the platform best in class.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
252
Affluent Banking
The ‘Burgundy’ offering for our HNI customers has been built by the Bank with curated features and offering for the needs 
of such customers, across banking, investment and insurance products. These services are catered to by best-in-class talent 
consisting of 550+ Relationship Managers, 475+ Premium Service Managers and 100+ Wealth Specialists spread across 
more than 350 branches in India. This has enabled the Bank to take the services to customers beyond the major cities and, 
into the tier 2 and tier 3 cities where the wealth management landscape is experiencing a notable transformation. The 
NRI segment is seen as a key segment by the Bank in furthering its premiumisation agenda, and accordingly offers its NRI 
customers products and service journeys through remote channels. In addition to banking products, the Bank caters to 
NRI clients to enhance their wealth creation journey through investment options in India and full suite of product offering 
through our digital platforms. The NRI segment is serviced through more than 450+ dedicated NRI RMs in branches as well 
as 300+ virtual RMs.
The Bank launched “The Burgundy Promise” with an aim to provide a truly enhanced, distinctive, and Industry-first servicing 
experience to our premium segment customers. Through this unique proposition which is based on three key pillars- defining 
commitment, measuring performance and transparent communication; the Bank has committed to provide quick resolution 
on selected services within a defined TAT of 6 working hours, along with a real time tracking mechanism via the digital 
channels.
During the year, the Bank applied and received the license as a distributor of capital market products and services at its 
IFSC Banking Unit (Gift City). The Bank is working towards building an equally strong wealth proposition through Gift 
City to service the needs of Non-Resident Indian (NRI) investors looking to invest in India, and Resident Indians exploring 
geographic and currency diversification in their portfolio.
Private Banking
Burgundy Private, the private banking franchise of the Bank catering to the UHNI segment, continues to grow strongly since 
its launch 5 years back. In fiscal 2025, the Bank expanded the Burgundy Private program to 15 additional tier-2 cities, as part 
of the strategy to harness the growing number of UHNIs and their wealth in these markets. With customer assets under 
management of more `2 trillion across 13,000+ families including 35 of the Forbes 100 richest Indians and presence across 
42 cities, the business continues to scale heights, capitalising on the well-established operational synergy with key business 
units within the Bank under the ‘One Axis’ initiatives. During the year, there was a 4-fold increase in acquisitions through 
the ‘One Axis’ initiative.
‘Burgundy Private Experiences’ launched last year made further progress with more than 15 curated events across various 
genres such as musical, arts, sports, and investment. These events helped Burgundy Private clients get together to network 
with like-minded patrons. Burgundy Private Experiences has now built an identity of its own and our clients look forward to 
such events, which is helping us enhance client engagement through a different lens.
‘Investment Perspective’, an initiative to empower Burgundy customers with knowledge and information on the Global and 
Indian equity & fixed income markets from the senior most Fund Manager’s in the industry continued to receive excellent 
feedback from all customers. This was also extended to NRI customers across multiple cities as part of the home-coming 
campaign.
Burgundy Private Partners are at the centre of ensuring, our clients “Experience the Power of One”. The people strength in our 
private banking arm has grown to more than 250 vintaged Burgundy Private Partners with an average working experience of 
over 17 years. They are ably supported by a well-trained team of more than 125 Service Partners to ensure superior service 
delivery. We have also strengthened the team with dedicated Investment Counsellors and Insurance Specialists, who are 
certified and trained for the purpose.
Burgundy Private franchise has been consistently pursuing excellence and has been dedicated to enhancing service delivery 
in Private Banking, customer centricity at the centre. The institution’s relentless endeavour to provide the best services to 
the customers and their families has continued to garner international recognition, with the Bank earning top honours such 
as ‘India’s Best for Next-Gen’ at the Euromoney Global Private Banking Awards 2025 and ’Best Digital Innovator of the Year 
award at the Global Private Banker WealthTech Awards 2025.

Management’s discussion and analysis
253
The Bank has successfully established a strong brand identity for Burgundy Private, defined by credibility and lasting 
recognition through strategic partnerships. Reinforcing this commitment, Burgundy Private extended its collaboration with 
Hurun India by launching the 4th super edition of ‘Burgundy Private Hurun India 500 Most Valuable Companies’, in February 
2025. This edition highlighted the leadership of India’s top companies, including key players from the new economy.
Priority Sector Lending
Priority Sector Lending (PSL) is a regulatory mandate designed to ensure that banks direct a specified portion of their lending 
to underserved yet creditworthy sectors of the economy. These sectors, which include agriculture, micro, small, and medium 
enterprises (MSMEs), affordable housing, education, and renewable energy, are critical for inclusive economic growth. By 
channelling credit to these areas, PSL promotes financial inclusion and addresses gaps in credit access, enabling balanced 
development across rural and urban India.
In fiscal 2025, the Bank has successfully achieved its overall PSL targets, demonstrating a robust internal framework for 
meeting regulatory requirements. With a clear vision to become self-sufficient in agriculture credit in the coming years, the 
Bank is implementing targeted initiatives in rural and semi-urban markets through its Bharat Bank strategy. This strategic 
focus not only ensures compliance with PSL mandates but also positions the Bank as a key driver of financial inclusion in 
underserved regions.
The Bank is actively strengthening its product capabilities and distribution network to enhance credit flow to the agriculture 
ecosystem. Its offerings include crop loans, such as those under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme, investment credit for farm 
infrastructure, and loans for farm mechanization. These products are tailored to meet the needs of farmers and support the 
Bank’s compliance with sub-category PSL targets for agriculture and farmer finance. By addressing the specific credit needs of 
the agricultural sector, the Bank is fostering sustainable rural development.
Under the Bharat Bank strategy, the Bank is expanding its presence in rural and semi-urban markets to drive higher 
credit growth. This involves augmenting distribution channels and product offerings to cater to the unique demands 
of these regions. By financing not only farmers but also food and agri-processors, rural MSMEs, and corporate supply 
chain participants, the Bank is effectively supporting the entire rural ecosystem. This holistic approach strengthens the 
rural economy and aligns with the Bank’s commitment to inclusive growth. In addition to agriculture, the Bank has made 
significant strides in enterprise lending, particularly to rural MSMEs and participants in the agri-value chain. Both its retail 
and commercial banking segments maintain a focused approach to MSME lending, which is a critical component of PSL. By 
delivering higher credit to these enterprises, the Bank is empowering small businesses and contributing to job creation and 
economic resilience in rural and semi-urban areas.
Finance to NBFCs for onwards lending to various priority sector end borrowers also assisted the bank delivery of credit to needy 
section of society and its aims to bolster i key partnership across BFSI domain to further increase the coverage in under penetrated 
region. Partnership arrangements under Co-lending with many large NBFCs/MFIs further supports the growth in organic PSL 
advance. Additionally, the Bank is actively pursuing other partnership arrangements as well as securitisation to increase credit flow 
in priority sector to increase the Bank’s PSL advances specially in food and agriculture sector.
During the year, the Bank continued its focus on augmenting the small ticket size loans, crop loans to small and marginal 
farmers, and microfinance business targeted at women borrowers from low-income households. The Bank also enhanced its 
digital lending channels to facilitate quicker turnaround time for sanction and disbursement of loans to MSME borrowers.
The Bank’s PSL achievement during fiscal 2025 is ~48.5% as compared to the stipulated target of 40% of Adjusted Net 
Bank Credit. The Bank through organic book and purchase of PSL certificates (PSLC) achieved the overall PSL target and 
sub sector targets of Lending to Agriculture, Lending to Small & Marginal Farmers, Lending to Weaker sections, Lending to 
Non- Corporate Farmers & Lending to Micro Enterprises. During the fiscal 2025, the Bank purchased PSLCs of an aggregate 
amount of `72,454 crores at a cost of `1,484 crores (excluding taxes) and sold PSLCs of an aggregate amount of `67,000 
crores and earned income of `197 crores.
Digital Banking
Digital Banking is a key strategic initiative and an area of distinctiveness for the Bank. The Bank was among the first to 
launch an independent “fully Digital Bank” within the Bank as part of Axis 2.0 strategy. In the last six years, the Bank has 
made substantial investments in Digital to build inhouse proprietary, distinctive digital native capabilities and deliver end to 
end digital journeys and products, towards becoming a Digital Consumer lending powerhouse.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
254
Today, the Bank has dedicated people across departments focused on furthering the digital agenda. The Bank has a  inhouse 
full stack engineering team, and today a large number of the Bank’s digital products are built inhouse. Further, the Bank has 
a large digital product and marketing team and a design team. The Bank has invested in best-in-class platforms across the 
DevSecOps pipeline, Cloud infrastructure as well as developed its own platforms for design (Sub-zero and Accord).
The Bank rebranded Axis 2.0 as “Open by Axis Bank”, as it upgraded and redesigned the journeys and its mobile app to 
deliver seamless and personalized end to end customer experiences. The “Open by Axis Bank” mobile banking app is now 
rated 4.7 on the Google Playstore and 4.8 on the Apple app store. The Bank’s mobile banking app is rated as the world’s 
highest rated mobile banking app on the Google Playstore with over 3 million reviews with ~15 million monthly active users.
The Bank today has a large suite of over 30 digital products live as part of “Open” – across assets, liabilities, fee income 
products. The Bank has built fully digital onboarding journeys for Savings account, Salary account, Current account and Term 
deposits. Similarly on the assets side, the Bank caters to both unsecured and secured asset journeys across Personal loans, 
Business loans, Auto-loans, Gold loans, Home loan journeys, etc. The Bank also upgraded its end-to-end digital journeys for 
Credit Card customer onboarding, cross-sell/up-sell as well as servicing.
In fiscal 2025, the Bank added several new products/customer propositions in addition to continued investments in existing 
products. Some of these included My Money – a personal finance manager, fixed deposit using UPI, One-view – multi-bank 
account aggregator.
As a result of these, the Bank today is at the forefront of providing cutting edge digital solutions to its customers with 
significant growth in metrics across digital adoption, usage, transactions, servicing and sales. “Open” by Axis Bank currently 
contributes ~6% to the bank’s overall business led by 47% Y-o-Y growth in deposits and 15% Y-o-Y growth in loans during 
the year.
On Digital lending, the Bank has made substantial progress towards becoming a “Digital Consumer lending powerhouse”. 
During the year, the Bank has made strides in enhancing capabilities critical to this business. The Bank is among the market 
leaders in Account Aggregator ecosystem – a capability critical for underwriting new-to-bank customers in lending.
The Bank has built best in class personalization capabilities towards its objective of becoming the leading customer centric 
bank. The ‘Open’ app offers over 10,000 personalised nudges across multiple features. This has been augmented by the 
“Just for you” section on the app dashboard. The Bank launched a benefits dashboard to enhance transparency on rewards, 
benefits and fees on Credit cards.
The Bank has also made strong progress in ‘Project Neo’, that the Bank had embarked on its transformational journey to be 
India’s #1 digital Wholesale Bank. Under Project Neo, the integrated journeys across wholesale products and services being 
experienced by the customers are based on how a customer views their business as opposed to a product led approach. 
The Bank continues to invest in technology stack to ensure that it leverages the latest technologies, addressing for system 
resiliency, scalability and agile enhancements.
“Neo for Business” – the Bank’s MSME focused platform that caters to banking and beyond banking services has seen 
over 1.8 lakh customer registrations. The Bank’s Corporate Developer Portal now includes over 135 Open Banking API’s 
as part of its wide transaction banking portfolio offerings. Neo for Corporates, the path breaking new age digital banking 
platform which encompasses a fully cloud based solution has also enabled the Bank to hyperscale products while offering a 
single Integrated Digital Platform across Payments, Trade, Forex, etc. Axis Neo Connect, the Bank’s industry first plug and 
play solution for seamless ERP integration to wide domain of banking API services continues to see strong uptake across 
customer segments.
Wholesale Banking and products
The Bank stands as a leading and all-encompassing Wholesale Banking franchise in the country, addressing every banking 
need of the Corporates. We are building on our strong foundation with distinct, innovative strategies that differentiate us in 
a competitive landscape and set the stage for next-year growth.
Throughout the fiscal year 2025, our focus remained on fostering deeper client relationships and delivering comprehensive 
banking solutions. By leveraging our ‘One Axis’ approach across different business segments and subsidiaries, we successfully 
encompassed the entire corporate value chain.

Management’s discussion and analysis
255
The Wholesale Coverage Group offers a wide array of products and services such as cash credit facilities, demand and short-
term loans, project finance, export credit, trade services, forex and derivative solutions, payment and cash management 
systems, tax payments, salary accounts, trust services, commercial and credit cards, and much more. Backed by a dedicated 
Wholesale Banking Products team, we provide customized solutions to meet the diverse financing needs of our clients.
The Bank’s Wholesale Coverage serves diverse customer segments ranging from SMEs, Start-ups, Large and mid-corporates, 
MNCs, Financial institutions and intermediaries, PSUs and Government departments through its sharpened coverage 
structure, as follows:
•	
Mid-Corporates & Medium Enterprises Group (MEG): Covering all corporate clients with turnover between `100 
crores and `1,500 crores;
•	
Large Corporates: Covering all corporate clients with turnover greater than `1,500 crores;
•	
Focused Segmental Coverage: Covering PSUs, Government-owned entities, Multi-national companies, Start-ups, Real 
Economy corporates and Financial institutions.
Wholesale Banking Coverage Group
The Bank has solidified its position as the preferred transaction bank, excelling in Current Accounts, Cash Management, 
Trade & Supply Chain Finance, Capital Markets, and Custody services, resulting in increased market share over the years.
The Bank recognizes the dynamic and evolving needs of start-ups and the significance of offering tailored financial 
solutions. We are proud to maintain strong relationships with  70% of unicorns and over 40% of Series A  and above 
funded start-ups across the country. The Bank has notably collaborated in areas such as cash management and core banking 
solutions, structured Escrow services, and API customization, leading to a substantial increase in transactions per second 
(TPS) and round-the-clock, high-volume settlements 365 days a year. These enhancements equip new-age players with a 
diverse range of capabilities. We continue to drive the future of digital banking through a comprehensive suite of banking 
NEO APIs, which are being leveraged by fintech’s and E-commerce players for bill collections, payments, trade, and more.
As a market leader in domestic payment gateway services, Axis Bank is expanding its capabilities by enabling the cross-border 
payment and collections space through PACB arrangement.
In our ongoing commitment to fostering the start-up ecosystem, we have introduced the Axis Start-Up Card, specifically 
designed to support entrepreneurs. These cards facilitate seamless travel, business expenses, and vendor payments, providing 
enhanced flexibility and financial control within the start-up ecosystem.
The Bank is a trusted partner to start-ups throughout their growth journey, with majority of tech founders choosing Axis Bank 
for their public listing in fiscal 2025.
The Bank’s E-Commerce Centre of Excellence (ECOM COE) is committed to scaling its presence in this sector, with an 
ambitious goal to double business growth over the next three years.
The Real Economy Group (REG), a specialized segment within the Wholesale Coverage Group, targets infrastructure and real 
estate clients. Within just two years, REG has doubled its business and contributes nearly 50% to overall syndication volumes, 
securing Axis’s position as the top bookrunner for local currency loans in India for the second consecutive year.
With a strong government focus on sustainable infrastructure, especially clean energy, REG has significantly supported India’s 
clean energy goals, contributing nearly 50% of the bank’s financing to green sectors, covering major players like Renew Power, 
Actis, Macquarie, and Brookfield.
Beyond asset build-up, REG is dedicated to enhancing customer engagement through the One Axis franchise. It has synergized 
with Axis Capital and Axis Trustee, aligning with the Govt and Capital market regulator’s push for Alternative & Hybrid vehicles 
such as Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs).
MEG is expanding “NEO for Business” suite to deliver seamless onboarding and credit processing with AI-driven analytics 
and self-service tools, streamlining operations and personalizing solutions for medium enterprises. Supported by additional 
branches, deeper regional ties and strategic collaborations with relevant ecosystem, our extensive network provides integrated 
financial solutions & propels growth.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
256
The Bank secured India’s first Blue loan, a USD 500 million deal from the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The funds 
will finance or refinance eligible Green projects and Blue assets, supporting environmental sustainability and restoring oceanic 
and freshwater resources.
The Bank also secured a landmark UTI Mutual Fund deal through a competitive RFP process, doubling Axis Bank’s Assets 
Under Custody (AUC) from ~`5 lakh crore to `10 lakh crore. This significantly enhances our portfolio and establishes us as a 
formidable competitor in custodial services, paving the way for further institutional custody business.
The WBCG organized a Defence Conclave titled “Atmanirbhar Defence – Empowering the Defence Ecosystem,” in 
collaboration with IDeX, KPMG, and IVCA. This event united government officials, industry leaders, foreign OEMs, venture 
capitalists, MSMEs, and startups, emphasizing collaboration and self-reliance. Axis Bank supports India’s self-reliance in 
defence manufacturing and innovation, reflecting our “Har raah dil se open” theme.
WBCG integrated with the Government of India’s “Upyog“ Platform for Himachal Pradesh, unifying 60 local bodies for 
citizen services. Axis Bank developed 40+ customized products for government departments, including Upyog and ATREDS. 
Our first-mover advantage in QR-based tax collections and drone-based disaster management highlights our commitment 
to innovation and customer-centricity.
The Information Technology & Global Capability Center - COE, aims to enhance bank-wide penetration in the IT & GCC 
universe through One Axis synergies and innovative products. With over 1,000 MNCs banking with us and a 32% CAGR, we 
offer customized offerings and improved features to meet varied needs. We are committed to doubling our liabilities book 
in 5 years through execution excellence, holistic account planning, and focus on sectors with strong MNC presence, such as 
IT & GCC, and Shipping & Logistics.
Looking forward, we are poised to harness our digital transformation, strengthen customer engagement, and capitalize on 
strategic partnerships to sustain growth.
Supplementing the India’s vibrant growth story, Government of India has allocated a staggering over `11 lakh crore towards 
capital expenditure in the fiscal 2026 budget. This significant investment underscores India’s commitment to doubling down 
on Infrastructure development, setting the stage for a transformative year ahead. Private sector giants are also stepping up, 
with `3.5 trillion in private capex earmarked for key sectors such as infrastructure, renewables, ports, roads, and commercial 
real estate. This synergy between public and private investments is poised to drive unprecedented growth and modernization 
across the country and the Bank is continuously building its capabilities & prepared to capture this demand which aligns with 
our focus on strong asset growth (Infra, Greenfield projects, EV, REIT & INVITs, Renewables, Road, Manufacturing etc) Fees, 
deposits, CASA etc.
Adding to this momentum is Government’s Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme that is designed to boost incremental 
production and sales by offering financial incentives to companies that manufacture specific products in India. As a bank, 
we see immense potential in this initiative and intend to support our clients in expanding their manufacturing capabilities & 
impetus to start ups, thereby driving further growth and enhancing our portfolio.
Our strategic focus includes driving overall efficiency, productivity & profitability and further deepening our market 
penetration/ share of wallet. As we navigate this dynamic landscape, our commitment to sustainable growth remains 
unwavering.
Commercial Banking Coverage Group (CBG)
CBG is a critical and vital segment of the Bank, contributing significantly to both business growth and profitability. CBG 
caters to the evolving needs of MSMEs across the entire customer value chain - spanning Loans, Trade/Forex, Liabilities, 
and Fee-based products and provides tailored banking solutions for both business owners and their employees, ensuring 
seamless financial support at every stage of their journey.
The MSME sector has consistently demonstrated its resilience and remains the backbone of the Indian economy. Recognizing 
this, CBG is committed to serving their diverse financial needs through innovative solutions, a customer-centric approach, 
and strategic partnerships. CBG strives to be a trusted partner, enabling MSMEs to scale and succeed. As MSMEs progress 
in their journey, CBG aims to be their trusted financial partner, providing comprehensive banking solutions that fuel their 
growth and contribute to the nation’s economic prosperity.

Management’s discussion and analysis
257
CBG has a wide geographical presence with 155 dedicated MSME centres, aligned to the extensive branch network of the 
Bank. The book of CBG is `1.19 lakh crores as on 31 March, 2025. It is a PSL engine of the Bank, generating stable and high 
quality PSL for the Bank.
Distinctiveness through Innovation:
We are enhancing our digital platforms—expanding the capabilities of our “NEO for Business” suite—to deliver seamless, 
rapid onboarding and credit processing. By integrating AI-driven analytics and intuitive self-service tools, we are not only 
streamlining operations but also personalizing solutions to meet the nuanced needs of medium enterprises.
Strategic Partnerships & Geographic Penetration:
Our extensive network, now strengthened by new branch expansions and deeper regional ties, coupled with strategic 
collaborations (notably with the Mid Corporate segment), is creating an ecosystem that delivers integrated financial solutions 
and opens new avenues for growth.
Wholesale Banking Products
The Bank has strengthened its proposition as a Transaction Bank of choice across Current Account, Cash Management, Trade 
& Supply Chain Finance, Capital Markets and Custody and gained market share. The Bank’s focus has been on providing 
differentiated, integrated product propositions to our clients across corporate, commercial banking, financial institutions, 
and government segment.
As part of Wholesale Banking initiative, “NEO by Axis Bank” reflects the Bank’s commitment to building a leading digital 
Transaction Bank. This initiative encompasses a broad spectrum of best-in-class digital offerings, including APIs, Corporate 
Internet Banking, Host to Host integration, and strategic partnerships. The Bank has been on this journey for over 3 years, 
and its transaction banking thought leadership and consequent deep solutioning continued to see widespread adoption at 
an increasing pace, demonstrating a strong product-market fit.
The Bank has built solutions to cater to the full range of business customers based on their digital maturity. The Bank has not 
only built a wide suite of APIs for corporates to integrate their ERP solution easily to the Bank, it also created the corporate 
developer portal for digitally savvy customers to integrate in a Do-It-Yourself fashion with the Bank.
Cash Management
The Bank offers comprehensive cash management solutions across all segments. The Bank has implemented new payment 
hub and increased the NEFT transaction processing speed by 2x during peak hours. The Bank continues its leadership 
position in processing the highest number of NEFT and IMPS transactions amongst all the banks. With an objective of easing 
the client’s reconciliation activities, the Bank has invested in the account statement infrastructure by enabling customised 
MT940, account statement and balance through API. This helps the customers to implement a STP capture of data in their 
ERP, automating their recon.
The Bank is also authorised for collection of Direct Taxes, GST and Custom Duty. For GST collections, Bank has activated 
the payment gateway for collection through cards and UPI.
The Bank is progressively improving on its leadership position in Bharat Connect (earlier known as BBPS) ecosystem and has 
been amongst the first movers to launch “Prepaid Electricity Meter” and NPS (Axis is a Sole BOU) category in BBPS. The 
Bank continues its leadership position in terms of number of biller onboarding and highest number of transactions amongst 
private banks & has been leading the way for new category of billings like B2B and piloting new initiatives with NPCI, billers 
& fintech partners.
Commercial Cards
Our Commercial Card business continued to drive innovation, offering tailored payment solutions that enhance cash 
flow management, streamline expenses, and improve working capital efficiency for businesses. With a strong focus on 
digitization, we expanded our suite of offerings, including launch of exclusive card for sole proprietors, backed by enhanced 
24/7 phone banking support and an end-to-end digital onboarding journey. By integrating cutting edge technology and 
strategic partnerships, we reinforced our leadership in B2B & statutory payments, positioning commercial card as a critical 
enabler in business transactions.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
258
Trade and Supply Chain Finance
The Bank offers a comprehensive suite of Trade and Supply Chain Finance products and solutions – for both domestic as 
well as international trade. These solutions are offered via our various channels such as our branch network and various 
digital channels with capabilities of integration with client systems. The Bank has a dedicated team of product specialists 
– both in sales, product and operations who support clients for their various requirements such as exports, imports, bank 
guarantees, working capital optimisation and liquidity & risk management solutions.
•	
International Trade solutioning
	
The Bank continues to provide unique solutions to Indian exporters, exporting especially to geographies with lesser 
than acceptable country rating, by confirming Letter of Credit (LCs) through enhanced structured partnerships with 
multilaterals and international banks. The Bank commercialised solutions for Auto and Oil exporter clients through 
robust partnership solutions. The Bank also enhanced trade capabilities at its Gift City branch by launching new 
products to facilitate international trade. In order to simplify regulatory procedures, the Bank provided solutions to 
Export clients to merge their ERP data to reconcile with Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS) data.
•	
Initiatives on Structured Trade:
	
The Bank has forayed into Structured Trade Finance during the year and a specialised team has been put in place to 
cater to the requirements of corporates on this front. During the year the bank executed deals pertaining Back-to-Back 
LCs and a structured Finance deal in the energy sector from its Dubai Branch. Structured trade as a business is a key 
focus area for the bank and is poised for growth.
	
Additionally, the Bank is expanding the integrated supply chain solutions across the client’s life cycle through multiple 
products that cater to specific segments supply chain requirements.
Current Account
The Bank’s focus on becoming the transaction bank of choice resulted in a steady growth in the current account balances. 
Current Account Product has also been focusing on service excellence for client stickiness and retention through better 
penetration into Self-service channels through branch of the future initiative (BOTF), building customer journeys across 
Re-KYC & other service requests.
During the year, the Bank also expanded customised banking proposition sectors like FMCG, Real estate, Pharma & 
Healthcare, Tourism & hospitality, IT & GCC, E-commerce, Education, Farmers producer organisation, while continuing the 
focus on digital current account proposition for merchants through co-origination of current account along with other digital 
offerings.
Treasury & Markets
The Bank’s Treasury & Markets function comprises of Asset Liability Management (ALM), Forex Trading group (including 
Currency Derivatives & Bullion), Interest Rate Trading (IRT) (including Rupee Derivatives) & Primary Dealership, Non SLR 
Trading (including Equity), Debt Capital Markets – DCM (Domestic DCM & International DCM), Treasury Sales, Loan 
Syndication, and Treasury Technology & Governance team.
The Bank’s ALM group manages the regulatory requirements of Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR), Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) 
and Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NFSR). The group also manages the liquidity, interest rate 
and currency risks in the Bank’s portfolio, under the guidance of the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) of the Bank.
The Bank’s Forex Trading Group is a major participant in the foreign exchange and derivatives market and undertakes 
proprietary trading and market making in forex and derivatives products.
The Interest Rate Trading (IRT) desk plays an important role of market making and trading in G-Sec, OIS & other interest 
rate products. The Bank is primary dealer of Government securities. PD desk ensures mandated bidding commitments, 
success ratio & turnover ratio for T-bill auctions/ G Sec are achieved for the year. The Corporate Bond & Equity Trading desk 
undertakes primary and secondary market investments in corporate bonds, commercial papers, certificate of deposits, and 
equity instruments.

Management’s discussion and analysis
259
The Bank remains a dominant player in the Debt Capital Market (DCM) segment. The Bank regained its numero uno position 
for calendar year 2024 (as per Bloomberg league table) after ranked 3rd in the calendar year 2023. The Bank maintained 
its leadership position for 16 consecutive years as the number one arranger until calendar year 2022. The Bank also has a 
growing International Debt Capital Markets franchise with mandates from leading corporate issuers for their international 
bond issuances. The desk has demonstrated a track record of arranging several ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance) 
compliant issuances.
Treasury Sales, a part of the Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) industry along with Coverage provides bespoke 
treasury solutions including customised risk management and hedging solutions to our diverse clients. The team offers a 
spectrum of forex and derivatives products, and its strengths lie in complex and structured risk management solutions, as 
well as hedging advisory and execution skills. A comprehensive digital proposition “Neo for Markets” is offered to clients and 
is ranked amongst the leading Treasury Solutions provider in the country.
The Bank’s Loan Syndication desk is responsible for arranging loan facilities for corporate clients on underwriting/arranger/ 
best-efforts basis while also undertaking secondary sale and purchase of loans. The desk, being active in both domestic and 
international loan markets, plays an integral role in balancing the risks and returns on the Bank’s corporate loan book.
The Treasury Technology & Governance (TTG) team oversees the Treasury Technology implementation and ensures 
appropriate governance framework is put in place before new products are rolled out to customers/undertaken in Interbank 
market.
During the year, the Bank successfully transitioned to Murex as the core and integrated state-of-art Treasury system for all 
products other than Bullion as part of its technology upgrade.
Customer Obsession (SPARSH)
Sparsh, our Customer Obsession program, is a Bank-wide priority and a core area of distinctiveness for us, the tenets of which 
are now ingrained across all our 5,800+ branches, every customer touchpoint, and amongst all our 1.04 lakh+ colleagues. 
The journey toward customer obsession commenced at Axis Bank with an extensive outside-in effort, encompassing surveys 
of over 12,000 customers, conducting over 1,000 employee discussions, and evaluating more than 50 global companies for 
benchmarking purposes.
Sparsh 2.0: Enhancing Customer Satisfaction and Business Outcomes
Sparsh 2.0 aims to link Sparsh initiatives to enhanced customer satisfaction, leading to improved NPS and better business 
outcomes. The key focus areas of Sparsh 2.0 include:
•	
Regional Structure: The department was restructured to bring a regional focus, with nine regions covering Branch 
Banking, Wholesale Banking, and Retail Assets, along with subsidiaries, AVC, and Axis Phone. Sparsh Labs were also 
introduced to conduct innovative, low-cost, high-impact experiments to continuously collect customer feedback.
•	
Listening with Intent: A pan-organization culture of listening to customers was fostered, from the Managing Director 
to product teams and frontline staff.
•	
Focus on Input Metrics: Efforts were made to reduce Turnaround Time (TAT) and improve First Time Resolution (FTR).
•	
Agile Customer Service: Real-time close looping of Net Promoter Score (NPS) detractors (customers who vote 
negatively towards bank service) and complaints was implemented to ensure agile customer service.
•	
WOW Moments: Low-cost, high-impact interventions were implemented to delight customers distinctively.
•	
Business Outcomes: Key input metrics were identified to drive positive business results.
•	
Customer Loyalty: Efforts were made to increase the number of products per customer (PPC) by becoming the 
customers’ primary bank.
•	
Customer Advocacy: Expansion in reach and business was driven by customer referrals, fostering a culture of customer 
advocacy.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
260
The Bank has established four fundamental building blocks of customer obsession to realize its vision and strategy:
•	
Craft delight journeys: Embedding delight/WOW moments in customer journeys to make it distinctive.
•	
Embed Sparsh values in every employee: Deepen the cultural transformation to ensure customer delight is a fully 
embedded DNA through behaviors and initiatives for all employee including off-role.
•	
Measure and act on Customer Feedback: Net promoter score to be aligned with business outcome, churn rate, being 
the primary Bank to our customers.
• 	
Build institutional capabilities: Build & facilitate institution wide capabilities and frameworks like, Axis Promise, tech 
capabilities - Adi, Kaleidoscope to ease operations and deliver delightful experiences.
Business Intelligence Unit
The Business Intelligence Unit (BIU) is a high impact team with a mandate to work with different businesses across the Bank 
to make better decisions and drive value using data and data products.
The team’s impact spans across multiple areas including marketing, risk management, business strategy, collections and fraud 
management across multiple businesses including retail lending, credit cards, retail deposits, wholesale banking products, 
commercial banking group, operations, financial crime intelligence, compliance etc.
There are over 740 highly capable members in the team in various techno-functional roles with expertise in data engineering, 
data science, Gen AI and strategic analysis. Over the last 24 months, the Bank has made significant investment in rewiring the 
latent operating model with a focus on skill mapping including creation of new-age role archetypes (for e.g., ML Engineers), 
granular individual skill mapping, well defined skill assessment platform and personalised skill development.
The Bank’s focus on Generative Artificial Intelligence (Gen AI) & Machine Learning (ML) along with traditional analytics has 
helped internal stakeholders to make data driven business decisions. The Bank continues to invest heavily in new age data 
science and engineering platforms – Big Data Lake, Cloud data platform, Micro Services-based architecture, and Analytical 
Work Bench. Cloud migration has been a big focus over last 24 months with multiple uses migrated to hybrid loud strategy 
adopted by the Bank.
The Bank has built a modern data stack, with 2,000+ live use cases. It is a petabyte scale lakehouse with terrabytes of data 
ingested the every day leveraging enterprise class tools to drive scalability and flexibility for the business. On data governance 
and quality, the Bank has leveraged MDM (master data management) to create a cutting-edge data quality outcomes. MDM 
is a customer master data for managing customer date elements from multiple core systems in one place. This has placed 
the Bank with a great starting point to leverage quality data and drive changes required to comply to new DPDPA act.
During the year, the BIU team focused on 3 key distinctive initiatives – Optimisation analytics, ML Engineering and 
Generative. Optimisation analytics has allowed the Bank to create 10,000+ simulations factoring in realistic constraints to 
arrive at data backed optimal outcome for the Bank. Optimisation analytics is being used across multiple areas including 
pricing strategies, marketing cost optimisation, etc. The Bank also uses optimisation analytics to ensure the loan offer made 
to customer is optimal in terms of pricing and limits offered. The Bank has embarked on journey for creating cutting edge ML 
engineering capabilities which has enabled the Bank to reduce its model development lifecycle by 25%. On Generative AI, 
the Bank has launched multiple use cases focused on enabling large scale automation and improving employee productivity.
Information Technology and Cyber Security
The Information Technology (IT) department vision aligns with the Bank strategy to be a leading tech and digital bank, 
committed to technological excellence and innovation with a secure, resilient, efficient banking system. The Bank aspires to 
develop and maintain advanced digital and data capabilities, enhance operational efficiency through innovative solutions, 
empower customers and employees through reimagined journeys, ensure the highest standards of security and reliability 
across IT operations, and drive cost efficiency and maximize return on investments.
The IT department has been focusing heavily on expanding its technology capabilities with a talented team of 2,000+ 
members having strong domain expertise. Furthermore, IT is committed to innovation, resiliency, and enhancing customer 
experience with focusing on more than 35 key initiatives including lending transformation, GenAI, personalization, digital 
payments, and integration of cloud ecosystem.

Management’s discussion and analysis
261
The Bank is continuously enhancing its Mobile Banking platform, now featuring more than 250 functionalities. The Bank 
has achieved remarkable ratings of 4.8 on the iOS App Store based on 349K reviews and 4.7 on the Google Play Store 
from 3 million+ reviews. The improved capabilities of the Bank’s channels have notably increased the volume of service 
requests managed at branches, resulting in a growth of monthly active users to over 15 million. Currently, the Mobile 
Banking application boasts 33.7 million registered users. The Bank is committed to sustaining its top-tier status and excellent 
ratings on both the iOS App Store and Google Play Store throughout the fiscal 2026.
The Bank has enhanced its support capabilities by providing services in more than ten languages. Furthermore, the Bank has 
32 digital services on Branch of the Future (BOTF) channel with new features such as change in EMI cycle, change in EMI 
repayment account, and ability to download loan account statement. The Bank’s WhatsApp banking channel exceeded 30 
million customers, conducted 100+ campaigns and 40 million+ communications, and added FD booking and Loan services 
as its latest offerings.
The Bank maintained a strong presence in the UPI sector, with a total VPA base of 1,674 million and facilitating around 
37.6 million merchant transactions daily via the UPI platform. The Bank has achieved the top position in the UPI Payer PSP 
market, commanding a market share of ~33%. Furthermore, the Bank has launched an UPI-enabled ATM cash withdrawal 
and deposit feature, in addition to existing offerings such as RuPay Credit Card on UPI, digital currency interoperability 
through UPI, and UPI support for international payments. The Bank also has one of the lowest UPI technical decline levels 
among the peer banks.
The Bank initiated the integration of GenAI into its operations by launching Axis Deep Intelligence (ADI), an internal chatbot 
powered by GenAI. ADI is leveraged over 5,800 branches throughout India and supports more than 104,000 employees. The 
Bank is harnessing emerging technologies such as AI/ML, automation, and data analytics to enhance customer experience, 
optimize operational efficiency, and improve staff productivity by building AI assists. Furthermore, the Bank has empowered 
different departments with Co-pilot capabilities including 4,500+ bots across 1,850+ automated processes.
The Bank has built a secure and hybrid API platform using an API Gateway and Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) for external 
partners and internal users. The Bank has developed a cloud-based integration platform to manage API products for partners, 
such as account opening and co-lending services. Furthermore, the Bank has established API guardrails to classify APIs into 
different levels of criticality (High, Medium, Low) with better security controls and API governance. The Bank has launched 
API-driven products with partners like Flipkart, Google, and Airtel, addressing transactional banking, trade, credit card 
services, foreign exchange, and payment solutions. The API usage has surged, with a 50% increase in daily requests, over 
840 partner APIs, 850+ partner onboardings, and 2,000+ internal APIs. The API developer portal offers access to 460+ APIs 
for over 5,000 developers, enhancing accessibility.
The Bank has maintained a Cloud-first and Cloud-native approach, creating three enterprise-grade landing zones and deployed 
over 150 applications on the Cloud. The Bank became the first Indian bank to receive ISO certification for AWS and Azure 
cloud security. With a focus on hyper-automation, the Bank utilised Infra-as-a-Code and enhanced application observability 
with Cloud-based SRE practices. The Bank’s cloud infrastructure achieved high maturity in governance, resilience, data 
recovery, security, monitoring, and incident response. Additionally, the Bank secured cloud privacy certification and 
implemented robust security protocols, including Zero Trust Controls.
The Bank operates centralized IT infrastructure from two primary data centers across different seismic zones (Mumbai and 
Bengaluru) and a near DR data center (Bengaluru). These centers use wide area network connectivity and multiprotocol label 
switching for application delivery to domestic and overseas branches. The data centers comply with the best benchmarking 
standards, feature redundancy systems with multiple active power and cooling paths. The Bank has implemented data 
privacy measures, including user access management, network security, secure configuration, BCP, DR, and database 
security, ensuring seamless digital experiences for customers, employees, and partners.
The Bank led CBDC initiatives, becoming the first among peers to launch both Android and iOS apps, with over 0.65 million 
registered customers and 6 million transactions. As the preferred RBI partner for the Government-led Programmable CBDC 
initiative, the Bank collaborates with various ministries and organizations. The Bank aims to expand government collaboration 
for CBDC projects and integrate with TPAP to boost adoption.
The Bank is dedicated to maintaining top-tier data security and privacy standards, continuously investing to enhance its 
capabilities. It follows a comprehensive cyber security program with policies and standards based on industry best practices 

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
262
and regulatory guidelines. The Bank’s cyber security framework, aligned with NIST and ISO27001 standards, focuses on 
key areas: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. It complies with multiple ISO standards, including ISO27001 
Information Security Management System (ISMS), ISO27017 Cloud Security Standards, ISO27034 Business Application 
Security Certification, and ISO27018 PII Data Security Standard Certification, as well as the Payment Card Industry Data 
Security Standards (PCIDSS), showcasing its robust cyber security resilience.
The Bank operates a 24/7 Security Operations Centre and Cyber Security Operations System, with all digital products 
monitored on the Dark Net/Deep Web. It boasts a BitSight Rating of 810 out of 900, indicating a strong internet-facing 
security posture, surpassing 90% of banking and finance entities tracked by BitSight. Internally, the Bank employs a zero-
trust architecture, enhancing security technology and process controls.
To protect its information assets, the Bank has implemented various cyber security controls, including Zero-Trust Architecture 
for secure remote access, micro-segmentation to reduce the cyber-attack surface, Advanced End-Point controls and Data 
Leakage Prevention (DLP), secure-by-design practices like DevSecOps and security testing and rigorous vetting of SaaS and 
PaaS providers for compliance and security.
Further, the Bank has implemented a robust Enterprise Security Governance Framework, e-mail security controls against 
phishing, continuous security monitoring and threat intelligence, network security measures like WAF and DDoS Protection 
and Cloud security measures supporting Cloud-First goals for enhancing its cyber security controls.
The Bank’s Information & Cyber Security governance framework operates at both strategic and executive levels to ensure 
that controls are commensurate with applicable risks and threats. Here’s a detailed look at the committee oversight and 
governance:
Strategic Level Oversight
Board of Directors: The Board is responsible for the oversight of the Bank’s cyber security strategy and risk management. 
They ensure that the cyber security measures align with the Bank’s overall business objectives and regulatory requirements.
Risk Management Committee: This committee focuses on identifying, assessing, and mitigating risks, including cyber security 
risks. They review the effectiveness of the Bank’s risk management framework and ensure that appropriate measures are in 
place to manage cyber threats.
Executive Level Oversight
Information Technology & Digital Strategy Committee: This committee oversees the Bank’s IT and digital strategies, ensuring 
that cyber security is integrated into all digital initiatives. They monitor the implementation of cyber security policies and 
standards, ensuring compliance with industry best practices and regulatory guidelines.
Information System Security Committee: This committee is responsible for the operational aspects of the Bank’s cyber 
security program. They oversee the implementation of security controls, monitor cyber threats, and ensure that the Bank’s 
information assets are protected. They also coordinate with various regulatory bodies to strengthen the Bank’s cyber 
defence mechanisms.
By having a structured governance framework with clear oversight responsibilities, the Bank ensures that its cyber security 
measures are robust, effective, and aligned with its overall business objectives. This comprehensive approach helps the Bank 
maintain a strong security posture and protect its information assets from cyber threats.
Risk
The risk management objective of the Bank is to ensure that the Bank operates in a risk – sensitive manner within the 
parameters of the Board approved Risk Appetite Statement and the concerns of Risk Department, while balancing the trade-
off between risk and return. In order to achieve this objective, the Bank has ensured at the outset the following enablers
•	
Robust risk governance from the top
•	
An independent risk management function
•	
Board approved risk appetite
•	
Focus on risk culture

Management’s discussion and analysis
263
Risk Governance
The Board is the apex Governance body on all matters of risk management. The Board of Directors exercises its oversight 
over risk management both directly and through its Committees, namely the Risk Management Committee, the Audit 
Committee of the Board, the Special Committee on Monitoring Bank Frauds and the IT & Digital Strategy Committee. 
While the Board reviews risk management matters on a quarterly basis, including approval of risk policies, risk profile, stress 
testing, risk policies, key & emerging risks etc., the Risk Management Committee oversees these matters in greater detail and 
depth and approves the Risk Appetite Statement of the Bank.
Executive Risk committees are constituted to look at specific areas of risk and are mandated by the Risk Management 
Committee of the Bank. Till fiscal year 2025 these were: Credit Risk Management Committee (CRMC), Asset Liability 
Management Committee (ALCO), Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC), Information Systems Security 
Committee (ISSC), Central Outsourcing Committee (COC), BCP & Crisis Management Committee (BCPMC), Apex 
Committee, Subsidiary Governance Committee (SGC) and Enterprise & Group Risk Management Committee (EGRMC). The 
Risk Management Committee of the Bank exercises oversight on these committees through review of their minutes and a 
review of the risk profile reviewed in these committees.
Independent risk management function
An independent risk management function offers assurance to the Board that risks are being taken and managed in line 
with the overall risk appetite of the Bank and the risk management policies of the Bank approved by the Risk Management 
Committee and the Board.
In order to ensure independence, the following enablers are in place:
•	
Risk function is headed by a Chief Risk Officer who is appointed by the Board of Directors and reports to the Risk 
Management Committee with additional reporting to the MD & CEO of the Bank.
•	
The Chief Risk Officer does not have any business targets nor does this officer have any other role like operations, 
technology etc.
•	
The Chief Risk Officer has direct access to the Risk Management Committee of the Board and meets the committee 
one on one on a quarterly basis without any other officers of the Bank being present.
•	
The Risk function under the Chief Risk Officer is part of various decision making bodies. For example, Risk function is 
a permanent invitee to all credit sanctioning committees in the wholesale banking space, Risk function convenes and 
conducts meetings of executive risk committees etc.
•	
The Risk function is well staffed in terms of people and has independent access to data needed to support its working.
The Risk Department, while discharging its role, first lays down risk policies which are then approved by the Board of 
Directors, and then monitors the risk profile of the Bank across various components of risk in line with these policies and 
also informs and escalates matters of concern to the appropriate levels of management.
Risk Appetite
The overall risk appetite and philosophy of the Bank is approved by the Risk Management Committee of the Bank.
The Risk Appetite Statement and the framework thereof provides guidance to the management on the desired level of risk 
for various types of risks in the long term and helps steer critical portfolio decisions.
The Risk Appetite is set at the Bank level and is cascaded into the business units for driving decisions at an operational level. 
It is monitored by the Risk Department which reports on the adherence thereto to the senior management and also to the 
Risk Management Committee.
Risk Culture
A robust operational risk and compliance culture is the cornerstone for risk management in any institution. In the Bank, 
Risk Department along with Compliance Department has put in place an action plan to strengthen the risk and compliance 
culture. This includes various initiatives such as -

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
264
•	
Training and awareness programs
•	
Strengthening staff accountability framework
•	
Clarity on roles and responsibilities of the front line staff
•	
Tone from the top through communication from the MD & CEO
Risk Architecture
The risk architecture is composed, for every type of risk, of elements of -
•	
Governance with executive risk committee oversight
•	
Risk policies to provide guidance
•	
Tools for measuring risk level
•	
Monitoring of risk profile
•	
Reporting for actioning
A summary of these facets of the key risks is provided here:
Risk type
Definition
Approach to risk management
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a 
customer, borrower, issuer of securities that 
the Bank holds, or any other counterparty 
fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Credit risk arises from all transactions that 
give rise to actual, contingent, or potential 
claims against any counterparty, customer, 
borrower or obligor.
The goal of credit risk management is to maintain asset quality and 
concentrations at individual exposures as well as at the portfolio level.
Internal rating forms the core of the risk management process for 
wholesale lending businesses with internal ratings determining the 
acceptability of risk, maximum exposure ceiling, sanctioning authority, 
pricing decisions and review frequency. For the retail portfolio including 
small businesses and small agriculture borrowers, the Bank uses different 
product-specific scorecards. Credit models used for risk estimation 
are assessed for their discriminatory power, calibration accuracy and 
stability, independently by a validation team.
Both credit and market risk expertise are combined to manage risks 
arising out of traded credit products such as bonds and market related 
off-balance sheet transactions.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk of losses in ‘on and 
off-balance sheet’ positions arising from 
the movements in market price as well as 
the volatilities of those changes, which may 
impact the Bank’s earnings and capital. The 
risk may pertain to interest rate related 
instruments (interest rate risk), equities 
(equity price risk) and foreign exchange rate 
risk (currency risk). Market risk for the Bank 
emanates from its trading and investment 
activities, which are undertaken both for the 
customers and on a proprietary basis.
The Bank adopts a comprehensive approach to market risk management 
for its banking book as well as its trading book for both its domestic 
and overseas operations. The market risk management framework of the 
Bank covers inputs regarding the extent of market risk exposures, the 
performance of portfolios vis-à-vis the market risk limits and comparable 
benchmarks which provide guidance to the business in optimizing 
the risk-adjusted rate of return of the Bank’s trading and investment 
portfolio.
Market risk management is guided by clearly laid down policies, 
guidelines, processes and systems for the identification, measurement, 
monitoring and reporting of exposures against various risk limits set 
in accordance with the risk appetite of the Bank. Risk Department 
independently monitors the Bank’s investment and trading portfolio in 
terms of risk limits stipulated in the Market Risk Management Policy 
and board approved Market Risk Appetite and reports deviations, if 
any, to the appropriate authorities as laid down in the policy and in the 
Risk Appetite Statement. The Bank utilises both statistical as well as 
non-statistical measures for the market risk management of its trading 
and investment portfolios. The statistical measures include Value at 
Risk (VaR), stress tests, back tests and scenario analysis while position 
limits, marked-to-market (MTM), stop-loss limits, trigger limits, gaps and 
sensitivities (duration, PVBP, option greeks) are used as non-statistical 
measures of market risk management.

Management’s discussion and analysis
265
Risk type
Definition
Approach to risk management
The Bank follows a historical simulation approach to calculate Value at 
Risk (VaR) with a 99% confidence level for a one-day holding period in 
a time horizon of 250 days. VaR models for different portfolios are back 
tested on an ongoing basis and the results are used to maintain and 
improve the efficacy of the model. VaR measurements are supplemented 
with a series of stress tests and sensitivity analyses as per a well laid out 
stress testing framework.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity is a bank’s capacity to fund increase 
in assets and meet both expected and 
unexpected cash and collateral obligations 
at a reasonable cost and without incurring 
unacceptable losses. Liquidity risk is the 
inability of a bank to meet such obligations 
as they become due, without adversely 
affecting the Bank’s financial condition.
The Asset Liability Management (ALM) Policy of the Bank stipulates a 
broad framework for liquidity risk management to ensure that the Bank 
is in a position to meet its liquidity obligations as well as to withstand 
a period of liquidity stress from bank-level factors, market-wide factors 
or a combination of both. The ALM policy captures the liquidity risk 
appetite of the Bank and related governance structures as defined in 
the Risk Appetite Statement. The ALM policy is supplemented by other 
liquidity policies relating to intraday liquidity, stress testing, contingency 
funding plan and liquidity policies for each of the overseas branches.
The liquidity profile of the Bank is monitored for both domestic as well 
as overseas operations on a static as well as on a dynamic basis by using 
the gap analysis technique supplemented by monitoring of key liquidity 
ratios and conduct of liquidity stress tests periodically. Periodical 
liquidity positions and liquidity stress results are reviewed by the Bank’s 
ALCO and the Risk Management Committee of the Board.
The Bank has integrated liquidity risk management guidelines issued 
by RBI pursuant to the Basel III framework on liquidity standards in 
its asset liability management framework. These include the intraday 
liquidity management and the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). The Bank 
maintains LCR/NSFR in accordance with the RBI guidelines and the 
defined risk appetite of the Bank. 
Operational 
risk
Operational 
risks 
may 
emanate 
from 
inadequate 
and/or 
missing 
controls 
in 
internal processes, people and systems or 
from external events or a combination of all 
the four.
Operational risk manifests in the form of -
•	
Core process risk
•	
Change management risk
•	
Outsourcing risk
•	
Continuity risk
•	
Information & cyber security risk
Core operational risk
The Bank has in place an Operational Risk Management (ORM) Policy 
to manage the operational risk in an effective, efficient and proactive 
manner. The policy aims at assessing and measuring the magnitude of 
risks, monitoring and mitigating them through a well-defined framework 
and governance structure.
The Bank has set up a comprehensive Operational Risk Measurement 
System for documenting, assessing, and periodic monitoring of various 
risks and controls linked to various processes across all business lines.
Change management risk
All new products and processes, as well as changes in existing products 
and processes are subjected to risk evaluation by the Operational Risk 
team. The overall responsibility of new products is vested with the Risk 
Department through the Bank’s Product Management Committee and 
Change Management Committee.
Outsourcing risk
Outsourcing arrangements are examined and approved by the Bank’s 
Outsourcing Committee after due recommendations from the 
Operational Risk team.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
266
Risk type
Definition
Approach to risk management
Business continuity risk
The Business Continuity Planning Management Committee (BCPMC) 
exercises oversight on the implementation of the approved Business 
Continuity Plan (BCP) framework which has been put in place to ensure 
continuity of service to its large customer base. The effectiveness of 
the approved Business Continuity Plan (BCP) framework is tested for 
all identified critical internal activities to ensure readiness to meet 
various contingency scenarios. The learning from the BCP exercises are 
used as inputs to further refine the framework. With effective Business 
Continuity Plan in place, the Bank has effectively managed to run its 
operations by adapting to various continuity/mitigation plans.
Information security risk
The Bank pursues a holistic Information and cyber security program with 
a comprehensive Information Security policy, Cyber Security policy and 
standards based on industry best practices with compliance to regulatory 
guidelines. These policies are aligned with the regulatory directives on 
Information and Cyber security and with global best practices like NIST, 
ISO27001:2013, PCI DSS etc.
The governance framework is in place at executive level with Information 
System Security Committee constituting key business functions meeting 
at least once in a quarter to assess the threat landscape and validate the 
controls enforced in the Bank commensurate with the cyber risks.
The Bank has invested in strong technical and administrative controls 
to proactively prevent, detect and contain and respond any suspicious 
activity. The Bank is compliant to ISO27001 standard and PCI DSS 
standard. The Bank conducts various assessments to identify and 
remediate risks before any application and/or IT infrastructure 
component is deployed. These assessments include Application security, 
vulnerability assessment, penetration testing, security architecture 
review data security assessment etc. The Bank also has adopted 
defense in depth methodology to protect its valuable assets from 
intrusion by malicious actors. The Bank has 24 x 7 Security Operation 
Center (SOC) to keep vigil on its digital assets and coordinates with 
RBI, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN), National 
Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC), National 
Payments Corporation Of India (NPCI) etc. for implementation of their 
recommendation to strengthen its defense against cyber-attacks.
The Information System Security Committee of the Bank provides 
directions for mitigating operational risk in the information systems. 
Over the year, the Bank has focused on strengthening the operational 
and information security risk frameworks by implementing several 
initiatives.

Management’s discussion and analysis
267
Strategic initiatives undertaken in fiscal 2025
The Bank has invested in strengthening the risk infrastructure across multiple dimensions.
During fiscal 2025, the Risk Department enhanced its coverage of risks by strengthening the governance around group 
risk through a comprehensive group risk appetite and deeper coverage of key risks by the EGRMC. The Department also 
continued to enhance its scope of model risk by enhancing the model governance and validation processes.
In terms of control environment, the Department strengthened controls around operational risk, technology resilience and 
digital banking, leading to a reduction in the level of critical and persistent operational risks.
Finally, Risk Department led the operational risk and compliance culture initiatives and tracked the milestones therein to 
closure, which would, over time, lead to a robust risk lens being embedded in business.
Risk Department also continued to work on its four areas of distinctiveness -
•	
Enhancing the climate and ESG risk conversations in the Bank
•	
Training and certification for cyber security
•	
Models in the retail lending space for credit – led underwriting
•	
Models and toolkits for rural lending
The Risk team remains focused on supporting the Bank in implementing its GPS strategy in a risk – sensitive manner. To 
that end, the team has identified a few critical initiatives to support the various strategic thrusts such as enhancing toolkits 
around digital banking, rural lending, cyber security, universal underwriting and enhanced credit monitoring. Further, to 
strengthen the risk culture, Risk Department will focus on stronger risk appetite governance, proactive risk actioning around 
key risk concerns and enhanced group risk oversight.
Successful implementation of these initiatives will help the Bank to achieve its GPS objectives in a sustainable manner, 
embedded in the bedrock of a robust assurance culture.
Subsidiary Governance
As a Financial Conglomerate (FC), Axis Group has established a robust framework & process of governance over its subsidiaries, 
approved by the parent Bank’s Risk Management Committee and Board, and Subsidiary Governance Department (SGD), 
which plays key role in ensuring:
a.	
alignment of important policies by the subsidiaries with group wide policies & best practices; and
b.	
regular engagement with the subsidiaries and the concerned departments in the Bank involved in the process of 
governance over subsidiaries to review status of governance and further reporting to group level executive committees 
and the committees of the Board of the Bank.
Over the last year, the Bank has tightened the process of governance over subsidiaries and some of the important measures 
taken include review of penalties levied by regulators on the subsidiaries to reduce, if not eliminate, them in a sustainable 
manner, by guiding them to make changes in systems & processes. Further, framework for reporting of significant events has 
been put in place, which lists down the incidents/events which the subsidiaries are required to report to the Bank along with 
timeline, details to be shared and the recipient departments & process to be followed thereafter by respective departments 
responsible for reporting to executive & Board committees.
All the matters of subsidiary governance are overseen by the executive committees, namely Subsidiary Governance 
Committee (SGC) & Enterprise Risk Management Committee (EGRMC) and Board of the Bank as well as committees of the 
Board, namely ACB, RMC and CSCB. These forums are provided update on important matters relating governance in the 
group companies by group assurance heads and SGD on a quarterly basis.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
268
Compliance
Compliance function is one of the key elements in the Banks’ corporate governance structure. The Bank follows Board 
approved policies to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements, which are updated regularly to factor in the 
changing and increasing regulatory and supervisory requirements and expectations, as well as other good practices. 
Identification, assessment, and management of compliance risks and ensuring timely and comprehensive compliance to 
regulatory requirements on an ongoing basis is an integral part of basic responsibilities of every employee, stakeholder, and 
function within the Bank. The Board and senior management emphasise zero tolerance for non-compliance to regulatory 
requirements.
The Bank’s Compliance department ensures that overall business of the Bank is conducted in strict adherence to the 
guidelines/statutory provisions as stipulated by the regulators/authorities and guides the business units and other 
stakeholders on regulatory requirements with a special emphasis on better understanding of the perspective/spirit of the 
guidelines and regulations. It closely works with Risk and Internal Audit functions and monitors various activities of the 
Bank with emphasis on proactive regulatory risk management.
The Bank has been undertaking various projects/measures to strengthen the compliance monitoring, as part of continuous 
improvement, through review of frameworks, processes, enhancement of technology, use of AI tools, etc. The other 
important focus areas to ensure robust regulatory compliance continues to be the frameworks for Root Cause Analysis (RCA), 
accountability & consequence management, self-identification of issues & remediation by first line of defence, compliance 
testing frameworks and automation of processes wherever feasible to eliminate the operational errors.
The Bank has also strengthened its oversight over its subsidiaries through implementation of group governance framework/
policy, review of compliance with the business licenses issued by regulators/authorities to subsidiaries and alignment of 
policies of subsidiaries with Bank’s policies wherever required. All heads of compliance functions in the subsidiaries have a 
dotted line reporting to the Group Chief Compliance Officer, who oversees the status of regulatory compliance across the 
group through laid down process of timely and regular reporting by the subsidiaries and an ongoing monitoring process.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit function of the Bank operates independently under the supervision of the Audit Committee of the Board, 
which reviews & evaluates the efficacy and performance of the internal audit function. The audit policy, strategy and plan 
for carrying out audits across functions of the Bank and the Axis Group are approved by the Audit Committee of the Board. 
Further, audit policy, strategy and plan are reviewed regularly to factor in inputs received from regulatory guidance, changes 
in regulations, business landscape & emerging areas of business and risks, learnings from various operational failures, risk 
incidents, frauds, etc., in a dynamic manner.
The Internal Audit function provides an independent assurance to the Board of Directors and Senior Management on the 
quality and efficacy of the internal controls, risk management systems, governance systems and processes in place on an 
on-going basis. This is provided to primarily ensure that business and non-business functions are following both internal and 
regulatory guidelines and processes.
In line with the RBI’s guidelines on Risk Based Internal Audit (RBIA), the Bank has adopted a risk based internal audit policy. 
The Risk Based Internal Audit policy has been designed factoring regulatory guidelines and international best practices. 
The policy has a well-defined architecture for conducting Risk Based Internal Audit which articulates the audit strategy 
in terms of a concerted focus on strategic and emerging business risks. These inputs form a key step in the identification 
of the audit universe for the audit planning exercise. The audit frequencies are in congruence with the risk profile of each 
unit which is audited. Further, concurrent audit, off-site audit, and thematic & snap audit reviews have been integrated into 
the internal audit process to make the function more robust. The Audit function recommends for making improvements in 
operational processes, design elements and policies, as part of audit report recommendations.
Emerging technologies like artificial intelligence and robotic process automation are deployed to harness enhanced 
efficiency and effectiveness in performance of audits. Automated checks and tests have been developed across various 
functions covering retail, wholesale, treasury, operations, and also to augment thematic audits, information security audit, 
revenue audit and concurrent audit, to independently evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on 
an ongoing basis and to proactively recommend enhancements to the process owners. The Internal Audit function has 
mix of resources with expertise in technology and functional skill for effectively conducting various types of audits. The 

Management’s discussion and analysis
269
Internal Audit function continuously strives to enhance its effectiveness & efficiency through internal reviews and external 
evaluations and augmenting skill sets of the audit resources for making Internal Audit Function agile and responsive towards 
the emerging and strategic risks.
Internal Audit framework for subsidiaries has been further strengthened under the Group governance framework by having 
group audit policy, which is supplemented by structured engagement, audit oversight, monitoring of key KRIs and conducting 
thematic audits.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & Sustainability
CSR
The Bank’s ‘OPEN’ philosophy continues to shape its strategy and actions towards creating long term impact in the 
community. Through its CSR interventions, which are guided by the CSR Policy and overseen by the Board and its CSR 
Committee, the Bank has been contributing towards the socio-economic welfare of underprivileged and under-represented 
communities across the country primarily under the broad themes of sustainable livelihoods, education, financial literacy 
and inclusion, conservation and protection of the environment, health & nutrition, sports, as well as humanitarian and 
relief based interventions. The Bank’s CSR efforts consciously strive to touch the most marginalized communities such as 
those in the aspirational districts, remote regions and north-east regions. The Bank continues to ensure that its CSR Policy, 
governance and oversight, and project implementation are in accordance with the Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013 
and all rules made thereunder.
The Bank’s CSR interventions continue to be delivered directly, through credible implementation partners, and the CSR arm 
of the Bank viz. Axis Bank Foundation.
Axis Bank Foundation was established in 2006 as a Trust to give strategic direction to the Bank’s CSR aspirations. Since 
2012, the foundation’s activities are focused on the theme of Sustainable Livelihoods, delivered across the two pillars of 
Rural Livelihoods and Skill Development. Since 2018, the Foundation has implemented its ambitious ‘Mission 2 Million’ 
commitment of supporting 2 million households in India. In fiscal 2025, ABF achieved this milestone impacting 2.05 million 
participants across 300 districts in 32 states and union territories as on 31 March, 2025. In this fiscal alone, it reached 0.39 
million participants.
This year, the Bank expanded its efforts in Education theme – scaling Axis DilSe® interventions to new remote geographies, 
strengthening education system through key partnerships, and supporting advance research and innovation.
The Bank expanded its Axis DilSe® interventions to Arunachal Pradesh, launching a school transformation program in Shi 
Yomi district and establishing a Teacher Training & Skill Academy at Mechuka. This initiative in partnership with Sunbird 
Trust, is expected to benefit more than 2,500 children and 900 teachers over the program period, strengthening the 
education ecosystem in the region. Additionally, the Bank scaled up its Block Transformation Program in partnership with 
Tata Steel Foundation to six more blocks – three in Odisha and three in Jharkhand – building on the success of Odapada 
block transformation program. This expansion ensures equitable and quality education for more communities.
As part of strengthening the education system, the Bank partnered with Sri Aurobindo Society to build the teacher capacity 
of over 300 Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan Schools and over 80 state government schools across 6 states, in competency-
based learnings, assessments, and pedagogies, in alignment with NEP 2020. Additionally, the Bank collaborated with Mantra 
Social Services to improve educational outcomes by catalyzing collective action in five districts across Chhattisgarh, Odisha 
and Jharkhand, driving systemic improvements in the education sector.
To support research and innovation, the Bank scaled up its partnership with Plaksha University to construct and 
operationalize Future Tech building which will house experiential learning spaces, innovation facilities, and collaborative 
hubs. Additionally, the Bank will institute a Faculty Chair at the university and support Ph.D. and Post doctoral fellowships 
to strengthen academic excellence and research impact.
As part of the Bank’s efforts in the Healthcare sector, it announced strategic partnerships with three leading cancer care 
and research institutions—National Cancer Grid (NCG) under Tata Memorial Centre, The Indian Cancer Society (ICS), and St 
Jude India Childcare Centers. The partnership will enhance digital oncology infrastructure, improve access to cancer care, 
and support research and early diagnosis initiatives.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
270
This year, the Bank also introduced sports as a new thematic focus area. The Bank partnered with Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ) 
to support 224 athletes and para-athletes across 10 Olympic and 8 paralympic disciplines. Additionally, in collaboration with 
Inspire Institute of Sport (IIS), the Bank launched a Judo Development Program in Manipur to nurture grassroots talent in the 
Judo discipline. Under this initiative, 104 young judokas received foundational training in Manipur, while 53 female judokas 
will be awarded full scholarships to study and train at the state-of-the-art IIS campus in Vijayanagar, Karnataka.
Under the Environment theme, the Bank made considerable progress towards meeting its commitment planting 2 million 
trees across India by 2027 and continued to support plantation programs over and above its commitment. As of 31 March, 
2025, ~3.27 million saplings had been planted across 7 geographies by the Bank’s implementing partners thereby achieving 
its target. The interventions also supporting vulnerable communities living in the peripheries of protected forests and 
reducing human-animal conflict.
During the year, the Bank extended humanitarian support and relief in flood affected areas in Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra 
and Manipur working with its partners or local organizations. Additional details on the Bank’s CSR governance, interventions 
and impact for the reporting year can be accessed in the Annual Report on CSR Activities which forms part of this Annual 
Report. Additional information is also available on the Bank’s corporate website at https://www.axisbank.com/csr and on the 
Foundation’s website at http://www.axisbankfoundation.org/
ESG
Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) is integral to the Bank’s long-term organizational strategy and actions. The Bank 
continues to align its overall decision-making and subsequent operations to its Purpose Statement - ‘Banking that leads to a 
more inclusive and equitable economy, thriving community and a healthier planet’.
To drive action on focused themes under the larger ESG agenda, specific groups have been set up at the management level. 
These include the ESG Working Group to drive sustainable financing initiatives and the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) 
Council to drive the diversity focus. In fiscal 2022, Axis Bank had become the first Indian bank to establish a standalone 
Board level ESG Committee, enabling the Bank to align its diverse priorities and activities under a unified and cohesive 
ESG agenda. Under the ESG Committee’s oversight, the Bank had also announced a series of ESG-aligned commitments 
with its business and non-business activities, which are being driven by the pertinent verticals across the organization. The 
Bank’s commitments are aligned to pertinent Sustainable Development Goals and to India’s climate commitments under 
the Paris Agreement. In fiscal 2025, the ESG Committee of the Board met 4 times, wherein it reviewed the Bank’s progress 
towards achieving its ESG-aligned commitments and also provided its guidance on new initiatives and activities. The Bank’s 
overall ESG-aligned activities, highlights and developments during the fiscal, including its progress on its commitments, are 
published in this Integrated Annual Report which is aligned to the <IIRC> framework and the GRI reporting framework.
Towards its commitment of achieving incremental wholesale lending of `30,000 crores in sectors with positive sustainable 
impact by 2026, as included in the Bank’s Sustainable Financing Framework, the Bank achieved `30,409 crores of incremental 
lending as of 31 March, 2024 thereby meeting its target much in advance. Therefore, in this fiscal, the Bank re-evaluated the 
wholesale lending target and set it to `60,000 crores to sectors with positive social and environmental outcomes by 2030. 
The Bank has achieved `48,412 crores of incremental lending as of 31 March, 2025. In fiscal 2022, the Bank had also taken 
an internal commitment to scaling down its exposure to coal mining and trading, and thermal power sectors, which is being 
tracked on a quarterly basis and reported to the ESG Committee of the Board. As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank’s exposure to 
these two sectors was well within the annual limits set as part of the glide path. The Bank’s total Wholesale lending portfolio 
in the ‘green’ sectors stood at `22,160 crores as of 31 March, 2025.
Towards its commitment to making 5% of its Retail Two-Wheeler loan portfolio as electric by March 2024, the Bank achieved 
an EV share of 3.62% till fiscal 2024 (cumulatively since 1 October, 2021), partly due to policy changes such as changes to 
FAME II program and consumer anxiety around charging infrastructure and lack of used market. Notably, in this period, the 
Bank entered into exclusive dealer finance programs, launched a differential policy to support the EV segment, and scaled its 
retail tie ups, in addition to offering a sector-leading up to 0.5% interest discount on EV loans, thus achieving an EV share of 
5.53% for this fiscal. During the year, the Bank also re-evaluated its EV lending portfolio and set up new targets to increase 
the share of electric vehicle revenue in two-wheeler loan portfolio and four-wheeler passenger loan portfolio to 6% and 4% 
respectively by 2027. As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank has achieved an incremental lending of 7.14% in Two-Wheeler electric 
vehicle and 2.92% in Four-Wheeler passenger segment electric vehicle. The Bank is also actively scaling its ESG aligned retail 
products including solar rooftop loans for SMEs and green home loans.

Management’s discussion and analysis
271
Under the ESG Committee’s oversight, the Bank has been actively working towards strengthening its climate risk management 
capabilities at the enterprise level. In 2022, the Bank had reached its first milestone of embedding ESG- and climate-related 
risks and opportunities into its annual Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). In 2023, the Bank had also 
significantly strengthened its ESG Policy for Lending that integrates environmental and social risk assessment into its credit 
appraisal for Wholesale Banking. The updated Policy now mandatorily requires scrutiny of proposals in sectors identified 
as hazardous, such as coal mining, thermal power and hazardous chemicals. Notably, key proposals discussed at the Board’s 
Committee of Directors now include an assessment under the ESG Policy for Lending.
In 2023, the Bank had launched a pilot ESG Rating Model for select clients in the Wholesale Banking business vertical. The 
Model, developed in-house, includes more than 80 parameters across the three pillars of E, S and G and went live in March 
2024 for select sectors. Notably, the Bank has also published its first ESG Risk dashboard, that has also been presented to 
the Board’s Risk Management Committee. As part of the said dashboard, the Bank has also developed a hazard heat map for 
identified sectors, including its Retail Mortgages, Rural, and MSME lending verticals. Additionally, the dashboard also includes 
an assessment of the transition risk in sectors identified as having “high” transition risk, including iron and steel, cement, 
and fertilizers and agrochemicals. During the year, the Bank’s Risk and Wholesale Underwriting verticals participated in a 
two-day Climate Risk training by Indian and international experts as part of a UK Government program.
The Bank continues its focus on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI). Towards its commitment to achieve 30% representation 
of women in its workforce by fiscal 2027, the Bank has been actively scaling up hiring diversity across all business and 
support verticals while launching innovative initiatives that truly embody the Bank’s organizational ethos. In line with the 
same, in fiscal 2021, the Bank introduced “Pause for Bias” as an integral component of the induction module for new joiners. 
This module encourages employees to recognize and address their inherent biases. This further lays the foundation for the 
Bank’s “Gateway to Inclusion” program with its focus on ensuring everyday inclusion. By reaching out to over 16,000 people 
managers, the Bank ensures that every team is enriched by diverse perspectives and that diverse representation is integral 
to every decision-making process. The Bank established the “Women in Sales” employee resource group with a focused 
mission to build an ecosystem that promotes capacity building, mentoring, and holistic support. This group is driven by a 
core committee of 30 senior leaders and a working committee of 100 employees from across various business units and with 
representation of men and women from Axis group—all dedicated to elevating women’s success in sales. Breaking heuristic 
patterns in hiring, the #HouseWorkIsWork campaign continues to champion homegrown skills as the cornerstone of its 
hiring strategy. Drawing interest from over 4,000 candidates, this initiative affirms that a career break should not mean a 
permanent pause rather a fresh start enriched with new, valuable life-taught skills. The Bank continues its effort in creating 
an inclusive ecosystem for employees and customers from the LGBTQIA+ community through the #ComeAsYouAre Charter, 
This Charter highlights progressive policies— health coverage of partners regardless of marital status or gender, to offering 
inclusive leave benefits for birthing parents and their partners, along with a dress code that honours each individual’s self-
affirmed gender identity. The Bank formalized the Pride365 employee resource group that has grown from strength to 
strength from 7 employees during its inception year to over 1,000 employees with representation from diverse identities 
in the queer spectrum. Beyond internal programs, the Bank is also furthering its external impact on DEI. The Bank actively 
engages with communities and with people in the corporate ecosystem to promote best practices in diversity and inclusion, 
thereby catalysing positive change across society at large. The Bank’s grass rooted effort Axis Women in Motion reached 
over 25,000 people from across towns, hinterlands and talukas—this program is focussed on encouraging women to build 
themselves as independent economic entities. Focusing on the student ecosystem, with a vision of cultivating the next 
generation of inclusive leaders, the Axis DE&I Curriculum on Building and Leading Inclusive Organizations was administered 
in 20 academic institutes, awarding certificates to over 800 students. These comprehensive sessions equip emerging leaders 
with the insights necessary to create and sustain inclusive environments, setting the stage for a transformative future in 
workplaces everywhere.
This fiscal year the Bank’s initiative “Axis ViBE”, (varsity of inclusive business enterprises) continued its focus on championing 
robust DEI practices across the broader business community and nurturing a collaborative ecosystem that values equity and 
inclusion. Through a series of dynamic events, this initiative reached 165 organisations.
With these initiatives, the Bank remains steadfast in its belief that every voice matters and that authentic inclusion drives 
innovation, excellence, and lasting success.
During the year, the Bank significantly scaled up its participation in and contribution to thought leadership and advocacy 
around the topics of ESG, climate change, financial inclusion, diversity, and sustainable finance, among others. The Bank’s 

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
272
senior leaders are members of key committees on these topics at FICCI, CII, IBA, MCA, among others, as well as at the 
market regulators including SEBI.
The Bank continues to deliver steady performance at key ESG assessment and recognition platforms. The Bank was on the 
FTSE4Good Index for the eighth consecutive year in 2024. The Bank maintains an ‘A’ Rating by MSCI ESG Ratings and is 
scored C in the CDP. The Bank has improved its S&P Global ESG score to 57 and has an improved ESG Risk Rating of 19.4 as 
of last full update - March 2025 by Sustainalytics. Axis Bank is among Top 10 constituents of S&P BSE CARBONEX Index, 
MSCI India ESG Leaders Index and the Nifty100 ESG Sector Leaders Index.
Human Resources
Employees: The Core of Axis Bank’s Growth Journey
At Axis Bank, our people are our greatest asset, driving the Bank’s long-term objectives and commitment to excellence. 
We continue to build an engaging and enriching environment for our employees through innovative initiatives and policies 
designed to foster growth, inclusion, and a high-performance culture.
Investing in Capability Building
Axis Bank remains committed to enhancing employee skills and competencies through targeted learning initiatives. In fiscal 
2025, we delivered over 6 million hours of training to 100,000+ employees, leveraging over 10 distinct capability factories 
focused on banking knowledge and leadership development. To build a strong leadership pipeline and foster future-ready 
talent, we continued to invest in our flagship talent management programs -  AHEAD and ASTROS. The fourth edition of 
AHEAD Internal commenced in March 2024 for fiscal 2025, bringing on board 40 high-potential employees who underwent 
an extensive induction and mentoring journey. ASTROS has been successfully launched in March 2025, expanding our 
commitment to developing leadership capabilities across the Bank.
Strengthening Our Cultural Foundation
The Bank’s culture is deeply rooted in five core values: ownership, teamwork, transparency, ethics, and customer centricity. 
These values serve as the guiding principles for our actions, shaping a workplace where fairness, diversity, and performance 
excellence thrive. With a strong network of over 2,300 Axis Value Realisers (AVRs), our culture champions drive these values 
across the organization. In 2024, Axis Bank was recognized once again as a Great Place to Work® certified organization, 
marking our fourth consecutive year of this achievement.
Elevating Internal Talent through ‘Thrive’
Our internal talent mobility program, ‘Thrive,’ continues to empower employees by offering structured career progression 
opportunities. The internal job platform, Catalyst, ensures transparency and accessibility, with all internal job postings made 
available for at least seven days before public listing. In fiscal 2025, over 5,700 employees advanced their careers within Axis 
Bank through Catalyst. Furthermore, our policy linking internal job movements with promotions enabled accelerated career 
growth, with fast-track promotions occurring up to one year ahead of tenure-based eligibility.
Expanding Campus Hiring & Early Career Programs
The Bank’s structured hiring programs continue to attract top talent from premier institutions. Our flagship campus hiring 
initiatives include AHEAD, which recruits from Tier 1 B-schools like IIMs; Aspire, which targets talent from new IIMs and 
IITs; ABLe, which engages postgraduates from Tier 2 B-schools; We Lead, a specialized diversity hiring program for women 
leaders from premier institutes; ASA (Axis Sales Academy), a hire-train-deploy model for freshers to get a headstart into 
banking sales and ARISE, an open program to hire young talent from diverse disciplines, enhancing skills diversity.
Performance-Driven Culture & Recognition
Our meritocracy-driven culture was further strengthened in FY25 through enhanced Key Result Area (KRA) assessments 
and mid-year performance reviews. A mandatory attrition-based KRA for AVP+ leaders helped improve retention.
Through our robust recognition programs, we celebrated excellence across the Bank with several key initiatives. 
The  Champions Awards  honored  86 employees  at our flagship R&R event. Through Ahead Of the Curve (AOC), we 
felicitated 595 managers. Our quarterly initiative, Anchors recognized everyday excellence of 3,183 employees. The OGs 
Program celebrated long service milestones of 7,000+ employees. Additionally, 20 retirees were honored through the 
Retiring with Pride program for their invaluable contributions.

Management’s discussion and analysis
273
Advancing Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I)
The Bank is steadfast in its DE&I commitment, aiming for 30% women in its workforce by 2027. Pride365, our LGBTQIA+ 
employee group, grew from 7 to 1,000+ members. Axis Women in Motion empowered 25,000+ women across towns and 
talukas to become economically independent. Our DE&I curriculum on inclusive leadership trained 800+ students across 20 
academic institutes. Axis ViBE (Varsity of Inclusive Business Enterprises) engaged 165 organizations to promote equitable 
business practices. These efforts, both internal and external, reflect our belief that every voice matters—and that true 
inclusion drives innovation, excellence, and long-term impact across workplaces and society.
Prioritising Employee Well being
The Bank prioritizes employee well being through its comprehensive wellness programs. Besides one-on-one multi-modal 
therapy sessions, the “Wellness Sherpas” initiative provides peer-led support where employees are equipped with the tools 
to be emotional first aid providers. Of these, some are trained specifically on LGBTQIA+ sensitivity and are called the 
Pride365 Wellness Sherpas, ensuring inclusive care.
Embracing the Future of Work
Our GIG-A initiative continues to redefine workforce flexibility, with over 2,500 employees operating in remote roles. 
Additionally, the Bank scaled up GIG-A Freelancer, engaging 70+ professionals for niche projects with a 1:1 gender ratio. 
The Hybrid Work Model is now firmly established, with non-branch employees working from the office twice a week.
Conclusion
Axis Bank remains committed to fostering an inclusive, high-performance, and employee-centric workplace. Our strategic 
HR initiatives are designed to empower our workforce, strengthen leadership pipelines, and enhance employee well being, 
ensuring that Axis Bank continues to be an employer of choice in the evolving financial landscape.
Subsidiary Performance
The Bank’s subsidiaries remain central to the principle of “One Axis’ and have an important role to play in the Bank’s 
strategy formulated around the three vectors - Growth, Profitability and Sustainability. In a short span of time, the Bank has 
established subsidiaries covering a significant gamut of the financial services space, with some of them being leaders in their 
segments. Axis Capital continues to maintain its leadership position in the ECM segment. Axis Mutual Fund maintained its 
position as the fastest growing AMC amongst the Top 10 players and is now the eighth largest player with ~5% share in the 
industry AUM, Axis Finance has grown its AUF at 31% CAGR from fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2025 while delivering healthy returns.
The Bank continues to focus on further scaling up the subsidiaries so that they attain meaningful size and market share in 
their respective businesses. The domestic subsidiaries, collectively, reported a net profit of `1,768 crores in fiscal 2025. This 
translates into a return on investment of 46%.
Axis Capital Limited
Axis Capital, the Bank’s investment banking and institutional equities franchise has been the leader in equity and equity 
linked deals over the last decade and had another great year with highest number of transactions (44 ECM deals across 
IPO, QIPs, OFS and Rights Issue). Axis Capital’s earning increased by 7% and contributed 9% to the total earnings of the 
subsidiaries.
Axis Asset Management Limited
Axis AMC, that had 12.9 million client folios as at end of 31 March, 2025 and contributed 28% to the total earnings of the 
subsidiaries. The Company manages 82 mutual fund schemes with a closing AUM of `305,717 crores as compared to closing 
AUM of `265,875 crores as on 31 March, 2024 and was ranked 8th amongst the mutual fund Industry in India. The AUM 
under Axis pension fund management stood at `8,854 crores as on 31 March, 2025.
Axis Securities Limited
The retail brokerage firm reported 15% growth in cumulative client base to 6.36 million. Axis Securities’ earnings grew 
39% as compared to previous period, and contributed 24% to total subsidiaries’ earnings. The subsidiary achieved a trading 
volume of `20,614,351 crores thereby registering a growth of 23% in fiscal 2025.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
274
Axis Finance Limited
Axis Finance Limited, the Bank’s NBFC has been diversifying its loan book mix and has made significant investments to grow 
its retail team with the objective of becoming a consumer focused lending company. Axis Finance’s earning increased by 11% 
Y-o-Y and contributed 38% to total subsidiaries’ earnings. Axis Finance remains well capitalized with Capital Adequacy Ratio 
of 20.90%. Its asset quality metrics remain stable with net NPA of 0.37% as of 31 March, 2025.
Freecharge Payments Technologies Private Limited
Freecharge Payments Technologies Pvt Ltd continues to lead the charge in delivering innovative and scalable digital financial 
solutions for both retail consumers and merchants. As a strategic partner to Axis Bank, Freecharge operates as both a 
technology service provider and business correspondent, while steadily expanding its portfolio of merchant-centric financial 
products. Freecharge also has a Payment Aggregator arm, having the best in class capabilities and features, and enabling 
online merchants, Banks and Financial institutions to accept digital payments from their customers.
Driven by a mission to promote financial inclusion and elevate transaction efficiency, Freecharge upholds the highest 
standards of security and regulatory compliance. The Company has significantly strengthened its on-ground presence, now 
operating across 100 locations, and has introduced unsecured business loans for small and micro-businesses, along with 
Microfinance (MFI) loans tailored to the digitally underserved segments.
Recognized as one of the most trusted names in digital financial services, Freecharge has firmly established itself as one 
of the fastest scan-and-pay platforms for UPI transactions, delivering seamless and reliable payment experiences. Its UPI 
Gross Merchant Value (GMV) witnessed a remarkable 132% year-on-year growth, surging from `3,211 crores in fiscal 2024 
to `7,461 crores in fiscal 2025.
A.TReDs Limited
A.TReDs Limited, the Bank’s subsidiary that was set up in partnership with M-Junction, was one of the three entities allowed 
by RBI to set up the Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS), an electronic platform for facilitating cash flows for 
MSMEs. The Bank’s digital invoice discounting platform ‘Invoicemart’ has set a new benchmark by facilitating financing of 
MSME invoices of more than `180,000 crores since inception. It currently has over 47,300 participants on the platform and 
has e-discounted nearly 40 lakh invoices since start of its operation from July 2017.
SAFE HARBOR
Except for the historical information contained herein, statements in this Annual Report which contain words or phrases 
such as “will”, “aim”, “will likely result”, “would”, “believe”, “may”, “expect”, “will continue”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “intend”, 
“plan”, “contemplate”, “seek to”, “future”, “objective”, “goal”, “strategy”, “philosophy”, “project”, “should”, “will pursue” and 
similar expressions or variations of such expressions may constitute “forward-looking statements”. These forward-looking 
statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to our ability 
to successfully implement our strategy, future levels of non-performing loans, our growth and expansion, the adequacy of 
our allowance for credit losses, our provisioning policies, technological changes, investment income, cash flow projections, 
our exposure to market risks as well as other risks. Axis Bank Limited undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking 
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date thereof.

Corporate governance
275
To 
The Members of Axis Bank Limited
Independent Auditor’s Certificate on Compliance with the Corporate Governance requirements under SEBI 
Listing Regulations
1.	
We, M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, hereinafter referred to as “Joint Statutory Auditors” have been 
requested by Axis Bank Limited (the “Bank”), having its registered office at the ‘Trishul’, 3rd Floor, Opp. Samartheshwar 
Temple, Law Garden, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad 380006 to issue a certificate on compliance with the conditions of 
corporate governance, as required under part E of Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”).
2.	
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by the Bank, for the year ended on 
31 March, 2025, as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paras C, D and E of 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations as amended from time to time (the “Corporate Governance Regulations”).
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
3.	
The compliance of Corporate Governance Regulations is the responsibility of the Bank’s Management, including 
the preparation and maintenance of all the relevant records and documents. This responsibility includes the design, 
implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the Corporate 
Governance Regulations.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
4.	
Our examination is limited to examine the procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Bank for ensuring 
compliance of the Corporate Governance Regulations. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the Financial 
Statements of the Bank.
5.	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Corporate Governance Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a 
reasonable assurance whether the Bank has complied with the Corporate Governance Regulations for the year ended 
31 March, 2025.
6.	
We conducted our examination of the above corporate governance compliance by the Bank in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised 2016) and Guidance Note on Certification 
of Corporate Governance both issued by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the “ICAI”), in so far as 
applicable for the purpose of this certificate. The Guidance Note requires that we comply with the ethical requirements 
of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
7.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality 
Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and 
Related Services Engagements.
8.	
For the purpose of this certificate, we have examined the books of accounts and other relevant records and documents 
maintained by the Bank.
OPINION
9.	
Based on our examination of the relevant records and according to the information and explanations provided to us 
and the representations provided by the Management, we certify that the Bank has complied with the Corporate 
Governance Regulations during the year ended 31 March, 2025.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
276
10.	 We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
RESTRICTIONS ON USE
11.	 The Certificate is addressed and provided to the Members of the Bank solely for the purpose to enable the Bank to 
comply with the requirement of the Corporate Governance Regulations and it should not be used by any other person 
or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in 
writing. We have no responsibility to update this certificate for any event or circumstances occurring after the date of 
this Certificate.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants,
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No. 044577
Mumbai, April 25, 2025	
ICAI UDIN: 25044577BMOBEE6759

Corporate governance
277
Report on Corporate Governance
I.	
Philosophy on Code of Governance
	
Axis Bank Limited (the “Bank”) recognises its role as a responsible corporate citizen and endeavors to adopt and 
maintain the highest standards of corporate governance.
	
The Bank’s philosophy on corporate governance is to promote the culture of customer centricity, ownership, integrity, 
sustainability, transparency and ethics, which enables the Bank to conduct itself in the right way while dealing with all 
its stakeholders.
	
The Bank has a robust governance structure in place, led by an independent and diverse Board of Directors
(the “Board”). The Board believes in prompt and clear communication to its stakeholders, which reflects in the internal 
functioning at the Bank.
	
The Bank believes in going beyond the law, to uphold the best-in-class corporate governance practices. In order to 
protect the interest of all its stakeholders, the Bank has a strong compliance and risk management framework and it 
continuously reviews its practices and processes, considering the dynamic environment it operates in.
II.	
Governance Structure of the Bank
	
The Board oversees the standards of corporate governance at the Bank. The directors are appointed by the members of 
the Bank. The Managing Director & CEO reports to the Board of the Bank. The Deputy Managing Director (the “Deputy 
MD”) and Executive Directors report to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank.
	
The Board has constituted various board level Committees for a more focused review of specific matters. The Bank has 
also constituted various executive Committees to, inter alia, deal with routine, operational and administrative matters, 
as well as to review various matters prior to their submission to the Board / Committees.
	
Diagrammatic representation of the governance structure of the Bank:
(Part of the Board’s Report for the fiscal 2025)
Audit Committee of the Board
Group 
Executives
Board
Committees
Executive 
Committees
Committee of Directors
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Committee of Whole-Time Directors
Board of 
Directors
Nominee 
Director
Independent
Directors
Managing 
Director & CEO
Deputy MD 
Executive 
Directors
Risk Management Committee
IT and Digital Strategy Committee 
Nomination and Remuneration  
Committee
Customer Service Committee
Review Committee
Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers 
Committee
Special Committee of the Board of Directors 
for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of Fraud
Environmental, Social and Governance 
Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
278
III.	 Board of Directors
	
Size and composition of the Board
	
The composition of the Board is governed by the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and relevant 
rules made thereunder, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”), the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the guidelines issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (the “RBI”), as amended, from time to time and the Articles of Association of the Bank (the 
“extant laws”).
	
The Board has an optimum combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors with Independent Directors 
constituting more than one-half i.e. 61.54% of its total strength. As on 31 March, 2025, the Board had thirteen 
directors, comprising of Managing Director & CEO, Deputy MD, two Executive Directors, eight Independent Directors 
and one Nominee Director of Life Insurance Corporation of India (“LIC”), promoter of the Bank. The Board is led by an 
Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman. The Board has two women Directors of whom one is Independent.
	
None of the Directors are related to each other. All the Independent Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they 
meet the criteria prescribed for independence under the provisions of Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions specified 
under the said norms and are independent of the management.
	
Board Effectiveness
	
The Bank lays emphasis on evaluating the role of the Board in the aspects relating to strategic planning, identification 
and management of risks, human resource, audit and compliance, governance, relationship with executive management, 
flow of information, board functioning, induction and professional development, customer grievance and protection, 
and financial inclusion.
	
Databank of Independent Directors
	
All the Independent Directors of the Bank are in compliance with provisions of the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, with respect to enrolling their name in the online databank of Independent 
Directors and qualifying the online proficiency self-assessment test for Independent Directors, as applicable.
8%
61%
Board Composition
31%
15%
85%
Board Gender Diversity
38%
38%
24%
Average Tenure
Independent Director
Executive Director
Non-Executive Nominee Director
< 2 years
2-4 years
> 4 years
Male
Female

Corporate governance
279
	
Information about the directors including age, tenure of appointment, details of directorship, number of 
membership / chairpersonship in the Board are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name, category, 
DIN and age of the 
director
Date of first 
appointment
End date of current 
term
Directorship in other 
listed company(ies) 
and category of 
directorship1
Number of directorship in 
other unlisted companies
Number of 
memberships / 
(chairpersonships) 
in Board 
Committees3
Equity 
shareholding 
in the Bank
Indian public 
limited 
Companies
Other 
Companies2
1.
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director 
Part-Time Chairman
DIN: 09568559
Age: 66
30 May, 2023
29 May, 2027
Nil
Nil
2
1
Nil
27 October, 2023
26 October, 2026
2.
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director 
& CEO
DIN: 00531120
Age: 60
1 January, 2019
31 December, 2027
Nil
3
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.
Girish Paranjpe
Independent Director
DIN: 02172725
Age: 67
2 November, 2018
1 November, 2026
Crisil Limited, 
Independent.
Mphasis Limited, 
Independent.
1
4
4(2)
Nil
4.
Meena Ganesh
Independent Director
DIN: 00528252
Age: 61
1 August, 2020
31 July, 2028
Pfizer Limited,
Independent.
Hitachi Energy India 
Limited, 
Independent.
Pidilite Industries Limited, 
Independent.
Nil
8
4(2)
Nil
5.
G. Padmanabhan
Independent Director
DIN: 07130908
Age: 69
28 October, 2020
27 October, 2028
Haldyn Glass Limited, 
Independent.
Ion Exchange (India) 
Limited, 
Independent.
1
Nil
1(0)
Nil
6.
Prof. S. Mahendra 
Dev4
Independent Director
DIN: 06519869
Age: 67
14 June, 2021
13 June, 2025
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
7.
P. N. Prasad
Independent Director
DIN: 07430506
Age: 64
20 October, 2022
19 October, 2026
Styrenix Performance 
Materials Limited, 
Independent. 
Jyoti CNC Automation 
Limited, Independent.
1
1
4(1)
130
8.
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
Independent Director
DIN: 07667641
Age: 63
1 February, 2023
31 January, 2027
Nil
1
2
1(1)
20
9.
Mini Ipe
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director -
LIC (shareholder)
DIN: 07791184
Age: 61
29 July, 2023
28 July, 2031
PTC India Limited, 
Independent.
Avantel Limited, 
Independent.
Nil
1
1(0)
Nil
10.
Pranam Wahi
Independent Director
DIN: 00031914
Age: 66
15 February, 2024
14 February, 2028
DCM Shriram Limited, 
Independent.
Nil
Nil
1(0)
Nil
11.
Rajiv Anand
Deputy MD
DIN: 02541753
Age: 59
4 August, 2016
3 August, 2025
Nil
1
2
Nil
585,062
12.
Subrat Mohanty
Executive Director
DIN: 08679444
Age: 48
17 August, 2023
16 August, 2026
Nil
3
1
Nil
770
13.
Munish Sharda
Executive Director
DIN: 06796060
Age: 54
27 February, 2024
26 February, 2027
Nil
2
Nil
Nil
Nil
	
1	
None of the independent directors of the Bank serve as an independent director in more than seven listed companies or as a 
whole-Time director in any listed company.
	
2	
Includes foreign companies, private companies and Section 8 companies.
	
3	
Includes only memberships of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee in Indian public limited companies other 
than Axis Bank. Figures in brackets represent number of chairpersonship of the said Committees, as per the disclosure received from 
the concerned director.
	
4	
The Board has approved the re-appointment of Prof. S. Mahendra Dev for his second term of four years with effect from 14 June, 2025, 
subject to the approval of the members of the Bank.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
280
	
All Directors of the Bank have submitted forms / declarations / undertakings / consent as required under the extant 
laws. Pursuant to review of the said forms / declarations / undertakings / consent as submitted by the Directors of 
the Bank, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (the “NRC”) and the Board of the Bank confirmed that all the 
Directors are in compliance with the applicable norms and are fit and proper to continue as Directors of the Bank.
	
Process of Selection and Appointment of Directors
	
The selection and appointment of Directors of the Bank is done in accordance with the extant laws. The Bank has 
formulated and adopted various policies, the details of which are provided below:
	
Succession 
Planning 
Policy
Review succession 
planning  needs and 
identify candidates to fill 
vacancy that may arise
Policy on 
Fit & Proper 
Criteria
Assess suitability of 
candidates under the fit 
and proper norms
Policy on 
Board 
Diversity 
Ensure new 
appointments facilitate 
Board diversity
Policy on 
Training
Conduct induction, 
familiarisation and 
continuous education 
and learning programs for 
Directors
	
Succession Planning Policy for the Board and Key Officials of the Bank
	
The Bank has formulated and adopted a Succession Planning Policy (the “policy”) for the Board and key officials of the 
Bank, which has been reviewed by the NRC and the Board of the Bank.
	
The objective of the said policy is to, inter alia, assess, identify and nominate suitable candidates to fill vacancies 
that may arise for positions of the Non-Executive Chairperson, Independent Directors, Managing Director & CEO,
Whole-Time Directors (including Deputy MD), Group Executives, Key Managerial Personnel and other key officials of 
the Bank / subsidiary companies, from time to time. The aforesaid policy also seeks to plan for succession of the said 
roles and to fill any vacancies that may arise out of impending move or retirement or resignation or sudden exit or for 
any reason whatsoever in such roles. The policy also aims to identify the competency requirements for the aforesaid 
positions, identify potential candidates and develop required competencies through planned training, development 
and learning initiatives. The Bank does not have a succession planning process for Non-Executive (Nominee) Directors, 
since they are nominated by Public Financial Institutions / Institutional Investors and are appointed pursuant to the 
right to nominate a Director on the Board of the Bank, in terms of the Articles of Association of the Bank or in terms of 
Shareholders Agreement entered into by them with the Bank.
	
The said policy also provides for the course of action to be initiated in case of delay or non-receipt of regulatory / 
statutory approvals, relating to appointment / re-appointment of Managing Director & CEO or Whole-Time Directors 
(including Deputy MD) or in case of a sudden vacancy in the position of Managing Director & CEO or Whole-Time 
Directors (including Deputy MD), caused due to death or permanent incapacitation or for any other reason whatsoever.
	
The NRC considers the profile, skill set, experience, expertise, functional capabilities, disqualifications and other relevant 
information and adherence to the regulators fit and proper norms, before making appropriate recommendations to the 
Board relating to the appointment / re-appointment of a Director. This is designed to provide the Board with Directors 
who have diverse knowledge, practical experience and requisite set of skills to serve the business interests of the Bank 
and enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board.
	
Wherever necessary, the NRC engages the services of an external consultant / expert, to identify and assess the 
suitability of candidates for the post of Director of the Bank.
	
During fiscal 2025, the Board reviewed and approved amendments to the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
	
Policy on fit and proper criteria for Directors of the Bank	
	
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on fit and proper criteria for Board of Directors of the Bank (the “policy”).
	
In terms of the said policy, the NRC assesses and confirms to the Board the ‘fit and proper’ status of the Director as per 
the extant laws, before considering his / her candidature for appointment / re-appointment as a Director of the Bank 
and annually i.e., as at March 31 every year. The primary objective of the policy is to provide a framework to enable the 
Bank to ensure that persons who are being considered for appointment / re-appointment as Directors of the Bank are 
compliant with the fit and proper norms, as it is the key criteria on the basis of which, the candidature of person shall 
be assessed and confirmed by the NRC, before it recommends the candidature of such person for being appointed / 
re-appointed as a Director of the Bank, for the approval of the Board.

Corporate governance
281
	
The Directors of the Bank, individually sign a deed of covenant which binds them to discharge their responsibilities to 
the best of their abilities, in order to be eligible for being appointed / re-appointed as a Director.
	
The Bank obtains a declaration and undertaking on an annual basis on the ‘fit and proper’ criteria in accordance with 
applicable RBI Regulations and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate 
Agent) Regulations, 2015, from all the Directors.
	
During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved amendments to the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
	
Board Diversity Policy
	
The Bank recognizes and embraces the importance of a diverse Board and is endowed with appropriate balance of 
skills, expertise, experience, and perspectives thereby ensuring effective board governance. The Board has reviewed 
and adopted the policy on Board Diversity (the “policy”), which sets out its approach to ensure diversity, and to enhance 
its effectiveness while discharging its fiduciary obligations towards the stakeholders of the Bank. The policy is available 
on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance. During fiscal 
2025, the Board also reviewed the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
	
In terms of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations and in the context of the Bank’s business(es) and sector(s), the 
Board has identified the following mandated core skills / expertise / competencies for it to function effectively:
•	
Accountancy
•	
Economics
• 	
Agriculture and Rural Economy
•	
Finance
•	
Banking
•	
Small-Scale Industry
•	
Co-operation
•	
Law
•	
Information Technology
•	
Payment & Settlement Systems
•	
Human Resources
•	
Risk Management
•	
Business Management
	
The Board has also specified direct and indirect criteria to determine the skill sets of the Directors. The details of 
Director wise core skills / expertise / competencies are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Total 
experience 
(in years)
Skills / Expertise / Competence
1.
N. S. Vishwanathan
44
Banking | Economics | Human Resources Management | Risk Management  | 
Information Technology | Payments & Settlement System | Co-operation  | 
Non-Banking 
and 
Co-operative 
Banking 
Regulation 
and 
Supervision 
|
Internal Governance, Internal Control and Internal Audit | Supervision of Securities 
Market
2.
Amitabh Chaudhry
38
Finance | Banking | Business Management | Information Technology | Human 
Resources | Risk Management | Accountancy | Insurance | Customer Service
3.
Girish Paranjpe
40
Accountancy | Finance | Business Management | Information Technology | Human 
Resources
4.
Meena Ganesh
40
Technology Consulting | Business Management | Human Resources | Finance | 
Entrepreneurship (BPO, Education and Health Care Services)
5.
G. Padmanabhan
46
Bank Regulations | Information Technology | Payment System | Risk Management | 
Economics | Finance | Supervision of Foreign Exchange / Securities Markets in 
India | Customer Service
6.
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
41
Agriculture and Rural Economy | Economics and Co-operation | Finance
7.
P. N. Prasad
42
Core Commercial Banking | Risk Management | Human Resource Development  | 
Agriculture and Rural Economy | Small Scale Industries | Corporate Banking - Project 
Finance & Structuring | Stressed Asset Management and Resolution | Strategy & 
Business Planning | Client Relationship | Trade Finance Operations | Alternative 
Investments | International Banking | Audit and Compliance | Treasury Management

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
282
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Total 
experience 
(in years)
Skills / Expertise / Competence
8.
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
40
Accountancy | Banking | Small Scale Industry | Agriculture and Rural Economy | Risk 
Management | Finance | Business Management | Information Technology | Human 
Resources | Insurance
9.
Mini Ipe
39
Accountancy | Finance | Law | Information Technology | Human Resources |
Risk Management | Business Management | Insurance | Customer Service | 
Marketing | Stressed Asset Management
10.
Pranam Wahi
43
Accountancy | Banking | Finance | Risk Management | Business Management | 
Audit | Human Resources | Treasury
11.
Rajiv Anand
36
Finance | Business Management | Accountancy | Banking | Capital Markets
12.
Subrat Mohanty
25
Information Technology & Digital | Business Management | Finance | Banking | 
Payment & Settlement | Insurance | Strategic Planning | Customer Service
13.
Munish Sharda
33
Agriculture and Rural Economy | Banking | Finance | Law | Information Technology | 
Human Resource | Risk Management | Business Management | Insurance
Total Experience
507
	
* Brief Profile of the Directors of the Bank is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/media-centre/board-of-
directors.
	
Familiarisation and Training for the Board
	
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on training for the Board of Directors of the Bank (the “policy”) which 
aims at providing timely and wholesome orientation and training to its Directors to ensure that they are well versed 
with the business, regulatory and operational aspects of banking. This enhances the knowledge and effectiveness of 
the Directors, both individually and collectively, as members of the Board / Committees.
	
The said policy provides guidelines with respect to:
	
(a)	
Induction programme for new Directors;
	
(b)	
Familiarisation programme and Continuous Education and Learning Programme (“CELP”) for Directors.
	
During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed the said policy, in line with the extant laws.
	
Induction programme for new Directors
	
The Bank conducts induction programme for new Directors through one-to-one meetings with the Managing Director & 
CEO, Deputy MD, Executive Directors and other members of the senior management on matters relating to businesses, 
credit underwriting, finance, business strategy, risk management, compliance, internal audit, human resources, 
information technology / cyber security, environment, social & governance (“ESG”) and corporate social responsibility 
(“CSR”), law, treasury, subsidiary governance and board process. They are also provided with the induction manual 
including the governance policies, codes and charters.
	
On appointment, the Independent Directors are issued a letter of appointment setting out the terms and conditions 
relating to the appointment and their duties and responsibilities under applicable laws. The format of said letter is also 
uploaded on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
	
Familiarisation programme and Continuous Education and Learning Programme (CELP) for Directors
	
The Bank conducts familiarization programme and CELP for all its Directors including Independent Directors covering 
the matters as specified under Regulation 25(7) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
These familiarisation programmes and CELP are conducted through a combination of experts from within the Bank 
and / or external agencies with in-depth expertise in various areas, taking into consideration the business requirement 
of the Bank, the existing skill sets of the Directors and recommendations made by them. Such sessions enable the 
Directors to obtain an insight on contemporary matters and changes therein.

Corporate governance
283
	
13 such programmes were organised for around 14 hours during fiscal 2025 details of which are as under:
	
1.	
Emerging Technologies and use case of AL/ML in future of Banking
	
2.	
Cybersecurity and Infosec
	
3.	
Global Geopolitical scenario
	
4.	
Board Governance – view from the regulator
	
5.	
Challenges and opportunities in the era of Digital Banking & FinTech
	
6.	
Board Governance
	
7.	
Global economic outlook and geopolitical events: impact on India and Banking
	
8.	
Annual update on AML for Board of Directors
	
9.	
Risk Management (Fraud Risk, Climate Risk, etc.)
	
10.	 Global macro environment & its impact on India
	
11.	 Indian banking industry – An investor’s perspective
	
12.	 Credit cycle in India
	
13.	 Gen AI and its use cases in banking.
	
The details of the programmes conducted and attendance of Directors have been uploaded on the website of the Bank 
at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
	
Duties and Responsibilities of the Board
	
The role of the Board is to provide effective guidance and oversight to the management of the Bank so that it delivers 
enduring sustainable value and is fully compliant with the extant laws and functions in an ethical and efficient manner.
	
The responsibilities of the Board, inter alia, include overseeing the functioning of the Bank, reviewing compliance of 
all laws applicable to the Bank and efficacy of internal control systems / processes and framing, implementing and 
monitoring the risk management plan of the Bank.
	
The Board is also responsible for approving the strategic decisions, plans and priorities for the Bank, monitoring 
corporate performance against business plans, reviewing and approving the Bank’s financial and operating performance 
on a periodic basis, overseeing the Bank’s corporate governance framework and supervising the succession planning 
process for its Directors and senior management.
	
The Board spends considerable time perusing the information provided to them which facilitates informed decision 
making and effective participation at its meetings, leading to higher board effectiveness. Apart from quarterly review 
of the performance of the Bank, the Board meets once a year specifically to review the long-term strategy of the Bank. 
The Board oversees the actions and results of the management to ensure that the long-term objectives of enhancing 
shareholder’s value are met. The Board also has the discretion to engage the services of external experts / advisors, as 
deemed appropriate.
	
The duties and responsibilities of the Board have been set out in the charter formulated and adopted by the Bank, in 
terms of the extant laws. During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved amendments to its charter, in line 
with the extant laws.
	
Role of Independent Directors
	
N. S. Vishwanathan, Girish Paranjpe, Meena Ganesh, G. Padmanabhan, Prof. S. Mahendra Dev, P. N. Prasad,
CH SS Mallikarjunarao and Pranam Wahi are the Independent Directors of the Bank. The role of an Independent 
Director is to help in bringing an independent judgment on the Board’s deliberations, especially on the issues pertaining 
to strategy, performance, risk management, human resources, governance, key appointments, and standards of conduct.
	
Independent Directors bring an unbiased view in evaluating performance of the Board and management and review 
management’s performance in meeting their goals and objectives. Independent Directors safeguard the interests of all 
the stakeholders, particularly the minority shareholders.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
284
	
Role of Independent Chairman
	
N. S. Vishwanathan, Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman of the Bank plays a critical role in managing and 
facilitating effective functioning of the Board. He presides over meetings of the shareholders of the Bank, Board and 
select Board Committees.
	
Role of Managing Director & CEO
	
Amitabh Chaudhry is the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank. He reports to the Board of the Bank and is vested with 
powers of managing the affairs of the Bank, within the overall superintendence, control, guidance, and direction of the 
Board.
	
As the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, he has the requisite delegated authority to perform all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things, which he may consider necessary or appropriate to perform, in the business interest of the Bank.
	
Role of Deputy Managing Director
	
Rajiv Anand is the Deputy MD of the Bank and reports to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank. He is responsible 
for wholesale banking, treasury and digital banking, marketing, corporate communications and public relations.
	
Role of Executive Directors
	
Subrat Mohanty and Munish Sharda are the Executive Directors of the Bank and report to the Managing Director 
& CEO of the Bank. Subrat Mohanty is responsible for banking operations & transformation and leads the larger 
verticals of retail & wholesale banking operations, information technology, business intelligence, digital banking and 
certain other corporate functions at the Bank, including strategy, process excellence, customer experience, etc. Munish 
Sharda is responsible for driving business growth across all product offerings of the Bank, including retail, MFI, MSME, 
wholesale, retail liabilities & deposits for retail customers and small businesses, leading the retail portfolio management 
group vertical and driving financial inclusion initiatives of the Bank.
	
Amitabh Chaudhry, Rajiv Anand, Subrat Mohanty and Munish Sharda are the key managerial personnel of the Bank, in 
terms of the provisions of Section 203(1) read with Section 2(51) of the Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
IV.	 Meetings of the Board / Committees
	
Schedule of the meetings
	
The schedule of the meetings of the Board / Committees and the Annual General Meeting of the Bank to be held during 
the next fiscal, is finalised and circulated in advance to the Board.
	
Framework for conduct of meetings of the Board / Committees
	
The Bank has formulated and adopted a framework for conduct of meetings of the Board / Committees of the Bank.
	
The said framework provides guidance on matters relating to administration of meetings by ensuring standardization 
in the formats used for preparation of agenda index, agenda notes, minutes and circular resolutions and adopting best 
practices from a compliance and governance perspective.
	
Agenda for the meetings
	
The RBI vide its Circular No. DBR No.BC.93129.67.001/2014-15 dated 14 May, 2015 has prescribed ‘seven critical themes’ 
to be reviewed by the Board namely business strategy, risk, financial reports and their integrity, compliance, customer 
protection, financial inclusion and human resources. The agenda for Board meetings includes matters forming part of the 
said critical themes, as stipulated by the RBI along with matters required under the provisions of the extant laws.
	
The agenda for the meetings of the Board / Committees is prepared and finalised in consultation with the chairperson 
of the Board / respective Committees. The agenda notes and presentations for the meetings of the Board / Committees 
are sent to the members of the Board / Committees in advance to enable them to read and comprehend the matters to 
be dealt with and seek further information / clarification, as may be required.
	
The said agenda notes / presentations are circulated through a secured web-based portal to facilitate its easy access on 
iPad / laptop / desktop. The agenda notes / presentations are presented in a manner, to facilitate informed decision making.
	
Members of the Board / Committees are free to recommend inclusion of any matter as part of the agenda for the said 
meetings.

Corporate governance
285
	
Availability of information to the Board
	
Meetings follow structured agenda notes and background papers, circulated through a web-based portal, aligning 
with the Bank’s green initiative. In addition to all items required pursuant to extant applicable regulations, updates 
cover diverse areas such as business & operations, risk management, CSR activities, and ESG initiatives, alongside 
other details like minutes of meetings, senior management appointments, subsidiary governance, strategic matters and 
regulatory compliance.
	
Post-meeting follow-up mechanism
	
Important decisions taken and suggestions provided by the Board and its Committees are communicated to the relevant 
departments for their information and necessary action. The actionables arising out of the meetings of the Board / 
Committees are thereafter dealt with in accordance with the Bank’s framework for monitoring and implementation of 
directions of the Board / Committees.
	
Framework for monitoring and implementation of the directions of the Board
	
The Bank has formulated and adopted a framework for monitoring and implementation of directions of the Board / 
Committees. During fiscal 2025, the Board reviewed the aforesaid framework. The framework is in line with the Banks’ 
commitment to adopt and adhere to enhanced governance standards and to define a set of principles for identification 
of actionable and the process for its monitoring, review and reporting to the Board / Committees.
	
In terms of this framework, actionables emanating from the deliberations at the meetings and actionables emanating 
from the agenda notes are periodically monitored and reviewed until their closure. Subrat Mohanty, Executive Director 
periodically reviews the actionables which are open beyond their original timelines. The consolidated status of all 
actionables relating to the Board / Committees, is also reviewed by the Board, on a quarterly basis.
	
Annual Board Strategy Meet
	
The Bank believes that the annual strategy planning process provides a structured environment, formal as well as 
informal, to focus on longer term direction, purpose and strategy of the Bank. At the three-day strategy meet, the Board 
is able to reflect on and challenge managements’ assumptions and the thinking around the changing risk environment, 
strategic planning, financial planning, review ongoing initiatives, assess risks to strategy execution, and discuss the need 
for new strategic programs to achieve long-term objectives. This meet provides a platform for Directors to contribute 
towards strategic initiatives and gain insights into the execution and other challenges faced within specific business 
segments. Senior management delivers detailed presentations on key business segments and subsidiaries, fostering 
discussions on strategic issues and competitive differentiation.
	
Minutes of the meetings
	
The draft minutes are sent within 15 days from the date of the conclusion of the meetings to the members of the 
Board / Committees, for their comments. The minutes after incorporating the comments, if any, received from the 
members of the Board / Committees are placed at the next meeting for noting and signing by the Chairperson of the 
respective / previous meeting. The Bank has adopted a Guidance, Challenge and Instruction (“GCI”) framework, in 
terms of which it circulates to the Directors a statement containing Guidance, Challenge and Instruction arising from 
the deliberations at the meetings of the Board / Committees, along with the minutes.
	
In case of business exigencies or urgency of matters, resolutions are also passed by the Board / Committees through 
circulation with the approval of the respective chairperson. The resolution passed by circulation is noted at the next 
meeting of the Board / Committees.
	
Conduct of meetings
	
The meetings of the Board / Committees during fiscal 2025, were conducted in accordance with the provisions of 
Rule 3 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time.
	
During fiscal 2025, nine meetings of the Board were held on 24 April, 2024, 19 June, 2024, 24 July,  2024, 
4 October, 2024, 17 October, 2024, 22 October, 2024, 16 January, 2025, 31 January, 2025 and 22 March, 2025.
	
The quarterly Board meetings for considering financial results were held over a two-day period, conducted in-person. 
During fiscal 2025, the Annual Board Strategy meeting was held from 22 March 2025 to 24 March, 2025.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
286
	
The gap between two Board meetings did not exceed the prescribed limit of 120 days. The requisite quorum was 
present throughout and at all the meetings of the Board held during fiscal 2025.
	
All the statutory recommendations made by the Committees during the fiscal 2025 have been duly considered and 
approved by the Board.
	
The details of the Board meetings attended during fiscal 2025 and attendance at the 30th Annual General Meeting of 
the Bank (“AGM”), are given below:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Directors
Board meetings attended 
during fiscal 2025
% of attendance
Attendance at last AGM 
(26 July, 2024)
1.
N. S. Vishwanathan
9/9
100
Yes
2.
Amitabh Chaudhry
9/9
100
Yes
3.
Girish Paranjpe
9/9
100
Yes
4.
Meena Ganesh
9/9
100
Yes
5.
G. Padmanabhan
9/9
100
Yes
6.
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
9/9
100
Yes
7.
P. N. Prasad
9/9
100
Yes
8.
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
9/9
100
Yes
9.
Mini Ipe
9/9
100
Yes
10.
Pranam Wahi
9/9
100
Yes
11.
Rajiv Anand
8/9*
89
Yes
12.
Subrat Mohanty
9/9
100
Yes
13.
Munish Sharda
9/9
100
Yes
	
* Leave of absence was granted to Rajiv Anand from attending the meeting due to family commitment.
	
Resignation of Independent Director
	
None of the Independent Directors of the Bank resigned during the fiscal 2025.
	
Board Committees
	
The Board also functions through various Committees, constituted to deal with specific matters as mandated under the 
extant laws. The charter of the Board Committees is subject to an annual review by the Board, pursuant to changes in 
the extant laws or to meet the business requirements of the Bank.
	
As on 31 March, 2025, the Board has 13 Committees, details and composition of which are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Committees
1.
Committee of Directors (“COD”)
2.
Audit Committee of the Board (“ACB”)
3.
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
4.
Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”)
5.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)
6.
Special Committee of the Board of Directors for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of frauds (“SCBMF”)
7.
Customer Service Committee (“CSC”)
8.
IT and Digital Strategy Committee (“ITDSC”)
9.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR”)
10.
Review Committee (“RC”)
11.
Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers Committee (“ADAM”)
12.
Committee of Whole-Time Directors (“COWTD”)
13.
Environmental, Social and Governance Committee (“ESG”)
	
* Out of 13 Committees, 10 are chaired by Independent Directors. The remaining three i.e., SCBMF, RC and COWTD are chaired by NED / ED 
as per the extant norms.

Corporate governance
287
	
Composition of Committees:
Independent Directors
Non-
Executive 
Director
Whole-Time Directors
N. S. 
Vishwanathan
Girish 
Paranjpe
Meena 
Ganesh
G. 
Padmanabhan
Prof. S. 
Mahendra 
Dev
P. N. 
Prasad
CH SS 
Mallikarjunarao
Pranam 
Wahi
Mini Ipe
Amitabh 
Chaudhry
Rajiv 
Anand
Subrat 
Mohanty
Munish 
Sharda
COD
ACB
RMC
SRC
NRC
CSR
SCBMF
CSC
ITDSC
ADAM
COWTD
ESG
RC
Chairperson
Member
	
With reference to the RBI guidelines on ‘corporate governance in Banks – appointment of directors and constitution 
of Committees of the Board, dated 26 April, 2021 and other applicable RBI guidelines, Girish Paranjpe, Independent 
Director is a common member between the RMC and the NRC. The above common membership is in compliance with 
the RBI guidelines.
	
Brief description of charter of the Committees, their composition and attendance of the members at the meetings held 
during fiscal 2025, are detailed as under:
	
1.	
Committee of Directors
	
	
Composition and Attendance
	
	
The Committee of Directors (“COD”) comprises of four Directors out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
P. N. Prasad
Chairman
13/13
Rajiv Anand
Member
12/13*
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
Member
13/13
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Member
13/13
	
	
* Leave of absence was granted to Rajiv Anand from attending the meeting since he was on annual mandatory leave.
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the COD, whichever is higher, with presence of atleast two 
Independent Directors.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
288
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Review loans sanctioned by Senior Management Committee, provide approvals for loans as per the limits 
stipulated in the corporate credit policy of the Bank, as amended from time to time, and to discuss strategic 
issues in relation to credit policy and review the quality of the credit portfolio of the Bank.
	
	
(b)	
Monitor the exposures (both credit and investments) of the Bank and to consider and approve one time 
compromise settlement proposals, in respect of loan accounts which have been written off.
	
	
(c)	
Approve treasury related investments and disinvestments as mentioned in the domestic investment policy, 
overseas investment policy and market risk management policy of the Bank, as amended from time to time.
	
	
(d)	
Review, note and approve proposals relating to the Bank’s business / operations covering all its departments 
and business segments.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, thirteen meetings of the COD were held on 30 April, 2024, 16 May, 2024, 27 May 2024, 
20 June, 2024, 23 July, 2024, 27 August, 2024, 20 September, 2024, 23 October, 2024, 22 November, 2024, 
17 December, 2024, 23 January, 2025, 18 February, 2025 and 18 March, 2025.
	
2.	
Audit Committee of the Board
	
	
Composition and Attendance
	
	
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“ACB”) comprises of five members, out of which four 
are Independent Directors and one is a Non-Executive Nominee Director. The members of the ACB are financially 
literate.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
Girish Paranjpe
Chairman
15/16*
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Member
16/16
Meena Ganesh
Member
15/16#
Mini Ipe
Member
16/16
Pranam Wahi
Member
16/16
	
	
* Leave of absence was granted to Girish Paranjpe from attending the meeting due to a medical ailment.
	
	
# Leave of absence was granted to Meena Ganesh from attending the meeting due to other commitments.
	
	
The Company Secretary of the Bank acts as the secretary of this Committee.
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members and at least 2/3rd of the members attending the meeting of the ACB shall be Independent Directors.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Provide direction and to oversee the operation of the audit function.
	
	
(b)	
Review the internal audit system with special emphasis on its quality and effectiveness.
	
	
(c)	
Review the risk assessment report, risk mitigation plan, scrutiny reports issued by the RBI and any other 
domestic / overseas regulators and forensic audit reports by external agencies, if any, and the status of 
compliance with the same.
	
	
(d)	
Review the concurrent audit system of the Bank (including the appointment of concurrent auditors).
	
	
(e)	
Recommend to the Board, the appointment of Secretarial Auditors of the Bank.
	
	
(f)	
Recommend to the Board, the appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of the 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank.
	
	
(g)	
Approve payments to Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by them.

Corporate governance
289
	
	
(h)	
Oversee the Bank’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that 
the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible.
	
	
(i)	
Review, with the management, the quarterly financial statements of the Bank (standalone and on a consolidated 
basis, in terms of the relevant provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations) before it is recommended for the 
approval of the Board.
	
	
(j)	
Oversee the implementation of compliance policy and group compliance policy and review the compliance 
function on a half-yearly and annual basis ensuring that all compliance issues are resolved effectively.
	
	
(k)	
Review functioning of the whistle blower and vigilance mechanism.
	
	
(l)	
All related party transactions and subsequent material modifications shall require prior approval of the ACB 
in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time.
	
	
(m)	 Review the performance of information security audit and the critical issues highlighted during the information 
security audit and provide appropriate guidance to the Bank’s management.
	
	
(n)	
Review the status of compliance with the provisions of the share dealing code, on an annual basis and to 
verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating effectively.
	
	
(o)	
Review and approve the appointment and removal of the Group Chief Compliance Officer (“GCCO”), Group 
Chief Audit Executive (“GCAE”), Chief of Internal Vigilance (“CIV”) and / or any change in the incumbency of 
GCCO, GCAE, CIV of the Bank, along with the reasons for such change.
	
	
	
The GCCO and GCAE of the Bank directly report to the ACB. They also meet the ACB on one-to-one basis, 
without the presence of the senior management, on a quarterly basis. The Committee also meets the credit 
rating agencies at least once in a year, to discuss issues including related party transactions, internal financial 
control and any items, which have a bearing on rating of the instruments issued by the Bank.
	
	
	
The ACB discusses the key highlights of the quarterly and annual financial results of the Bank, internal financial 
controls, branch audits and control findings, with the Joint Statutory Auditors, before recommending the 
same to the Board, for their approval. Joint Statutory Auditors have attended the meetings of the ACB held 
during fiscal 2025, for review of the quarterly / half yearly / annual financial results of the Bank.
	
	
	
The ACB also meets with the Joint Statutory Auditors, without the presence of any executives of the Bank.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, sixteen meetings of the ACB were held on 19 April, 2024, 24 April, 2024, 22 May, 2024, 
25 June, 2024, 24 July, 2024, 26 July, 2024, 28 August, 2024, 24 September, 2024, 11 October, 2024, 17 October, 
2024, 19 November, 2024, 19 December, 2024, 16 January, 2025, 31 January, 2025, 13 February, 2025 and 
17 March, 2025.
	
3.	
Risk Management Committee
	
	
Composition and Attendance
	
	
The Risk Management Committee of Board of Directors of the Bank (“RMC”) comprises of five members out of 
which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
G. Padmanabhan
Chairman
5/5
Amitabh Chaudhry
Member
5/5
Girish Paranjpe
Member
5/5
Pranam Wahi
Member
5/5
Munish Sharda
Member
5/5

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
290
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members. At least half of the members attending the meeting of the RMC shall be Independent Directors, 
of which at least one member shall have professional expertise / qualification in risk management.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Framing and governing of the risk strategy and approving and reviewing the risk appetite of the Bank.
	
	
(b)	
Ensure that sound policies, procedures and practices are in place to manage its risks.
	
	
(c)	
Establishing a framework to set and monitor limits across risk categories such as credit risk, market risk, 
operational risk etc. in order to ensure that the risk profile is adequately diversified.
	
	
(d)	
Review the risk management plan with respect to cyber security and monitor the implementation of the 
measures recommended by the IT and Digital Strategy Committee of the Bank, to mitigate any risk arising 
therefrom.
	
	
(e)	
Review the appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) of the Bank.
	
	
	
The CRO reports to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank. The CRO is independent of the business lines 
and is actively involved in key decision-making processes that impact the risk profile of the Bank. The CRO 
also meets the RMC without the presence of executives of the Bank. The Bank has a policy defining the roles 
and responsibilities of the CRO, in line with the guidelines issued by the RBI.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, five meetings of the RMC were held on 19 April, 2024, 18 June, 2024, 19 July, 2024, 
11 October, 2024 and 15 January, 2025.
	
4. 	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
	
	
Composition and Attendance
	
	
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“SRC”) comprises of four members 
out of which two are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
Chairman
2/2
Rajiv Anand
Member
2/2
P. N. Prasad
Member
2/2
Munish Sharda
Member
2/2

Sandeep Poddar, Company Secretary of the Bank is appointed as the Compliance Officer in terms of Regulation 6 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. He also acts as the secretary of this Committee.
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the SRC, whichever is higher.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
 Consider and resolve the grievances of the security holders of the Bank.
	
	
(b)	
Review of complaints received from the investors in respect of transfer / transmission of shares and 
debentures of the Bank, non-receipt of annual report of the Bank, non-receipt of declared dividends and 
interest on debentures, delay in receipt of new / duplicate certificates, general meetings, etc. and the status 
of its redressal.
	
	
(c)	
Review the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.

Corporate governance
291
	
	
(d)	
Review adherence to the service standards adopted by the Bank in respect of various services being rendered 
by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
	
	
(e)	
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the Bank for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the 
shareholders of the Bank.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, two meetings of SRC were held on 27 May, 2024 and 11 November, 2024.
	
5. 	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
	
Composition and Attendance
	
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“NRC”) comprises of four 
members, out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
Meena Ganesh
Chairperson
12/12
Girish Paranjpe
Member
12/12
N. S. Vishwanathan
Member
12/12
Mini Ipe
Member
12/12
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members. At least half of the members attending the meeting of the NRC shall be Independent Directors, 
of which one shall be a member of the RMC.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Evaluate efficacy of the Talent Management and Succession Planning process adopted by the Bank and 
suggest suitable course of action, if any, relating to vacancies that would be required to be filled at Board, 
senior management and key managerial personnel, functional head level, critical role holders on account of 
retirement / resignation / expiry of term of the chairperson, the directors, senior management, key managerial 
personnel, functional heads and the critical role holders.
	
	
(b)	
Set the goals, objectives and performance benchmarks for the Bank, Whole-Time Directors & senior 
management.
	
	
(c)	
Review and recommend for the approval of the Board, the overall remuneration framework and associated 
policies of the Bank.
	
	
(d)	
Review the structure, size, composition and diversity of the Board and make necessary recommendations to 
the Board with regard to any changes in its composition as deemed necessary in accordance with the extant 
norms and formulate and review the policy on board diversity.
	
	
(e)	
Carry out evaluation of performance of individual and Independent Directors, the Board as a whole 
and the Committees thereof and based on the outcome of such performance evaluation, decide whether to 
re-appoint the Director and assignment of additional roles, responsibilities and his/her remuneration.
	
	
(f)	
Consider and approve the grant of stock options to eligible employees of the Bank including the Managing 
Director & CEO, other Whole-Time Directors and senior management and eligible employees of the subsidiary 
companies of the Bank, in terms of the Employees Stock Option Scheme formulated and adopted by the Bank 
under the relevant provisions of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021, as amended from time to time.
	
	
(g)	
Review adequacy and appropriateness of HR strategy of the Bank in the broader areas of code of conduct, 
culture and ethics, conflict of interest, succession planning, talent management, performance management, 
and remuneration and HR risk management.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
292
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, twelve meetings of NRC were held on 19 April, 2024, 25 April, 2024, 13 June, 2024, 
11 July, 2024, 18 October, 2024, 8 November 2024, 19 December, 2024, 9 January, 2025, 31 January, 2025, 
13 February, 2025, 17 March, 2025 and 22 March, 2025.
	
6. 	
Special Committee of the Board of Directors for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of Frauds
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The Special Committee of the Board of Directors for Monitoring and Follow up of cases of Frauds (“SCBMF”) 
comprises of five members out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
Mini Ipe
Chairperson
4/4
Amitabh Chaudhry
Member
4/4
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Member
4/4
P. N. Prasad
Member
4/4
N. S. Vishwanathan
Member
3/4*
	
	
*Leave of absence was granted to N. S. Vishwanathanfrom attending the meeting due to family commitments.
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members with at least one being a Non-Executive Director.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Oversee the effectiveness of the fraud risk management in the Bank, including fraud monitoring and fraud 
investigations and make suggestions for improvement.
	
	
(b)	
Review and monitor cases of frauds, including root cause analysis, efficacy of the remedial action taken to 
prevent recurrence and suggest mitigating measures for strengthening the internal controls, risk management 
framework and minimising the incidence of frauds.
	
	
(c)	
Review the cases remaining in red-flagged status beyond 180 days together with adequate reasoning / 
justification thereof.
	
	
(d)	
Identify the reasons for delay, in detection and classification and / or reporting, if any, of frauds to top 
management of the Bank and the RBI.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of SCBMF were held on 13 June, 2024, 11 September, 2024, 11 December, 2024 
and 5 March, 2025.
	
7. 	
Customer Service Committee
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The Customer Service Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“CSC”) comprises of five members out of 
which two are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
P. N. Prasad
Chairman
4/4
G. Padmanabhan
Member
4/4
Amitabh Chaudhry
Member
3/4*
Mini Ipe
Member
4/4
Subrat Mohanty
Member
4/4
	
	
*Leave of absence was granted to Amitabh Chaudhry from attending the meeting due to other commitments.

Corporate governance
293
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 1/3rd of total strength of the CSC, whichever is higher, out of which at least one member shall 
be an Independent Director of the Bank.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Oversee the functioning of various customer sub-Committees at the Bank.
	
	
(b)	
Review thematic feedback from Branch Level Customer Service meetings.
	
	
(c)	
Review customer feedback received during Standing Committee on Customer Service and customer metrics 
that were reviewed.
	
	
(d)	
Review complaints and quality of service provided by the Bank & it’s subsidiaries to ensure a robust grievance 
redressal mechanism.
	
	
(e)	
Review of customer service policies annually and / or adopt new policies based on the RBI directives.
	
	
(f)	
Review progress on other regulatory matters.
	
	
(g)	
Review any specific directive received from the RBI and status of implementation.
	
	
(h)	
Review the initiatives taken by the Bank to enhance customer experience.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of the CSC were held on 6 June, 2024, 5 September, 2024, 16 December, 2024 
and 12 March, 2025.
	
8. 	
IT and Digital Strategy Committee
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The IT and Digital Strategy Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“ITDSC”) comprises of five members 
out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
Chairman
5/5
G. Padmanabhan
Member
5/5
Girish Paranjpe
Member
5/5
Amitabh Chaudhry
Member
5/5
Subrat Mohanty 
Member
5/5
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 1/3rd of total strength of ITDSC, whichever is higher.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Approving IT strategy and policies and ensuring that IT strategy is aligned with business strategy.
	
	
(b)	
Review of IT and cyber security incidents / frauds.
	
	
(c)	
Assessing if IT architecture has been designed to derive maximum business value from IT.
	
	
(d)	
Ensure that the Bank has put in place processes for assessing and managing IT and cybersecurity risks.
	
	
(e)	
Exercise oversight to ensure effective functioning of the IT Operations of the Bank.
	
	
(f)	
Review on an annual basis, the Business Continuity Plan (“BCP”) / Disaster Recovery (“DR”) Plan of the Bank 
and exercise oversight over the efficacy of the BCP / DR process adopted by the Bank and recommend 
measures for its improvement.
	
	
(g)	
Review the progress made by the Bank on the digital banking front.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
294
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, five meetings of ITDSC were held on 6 June, 2024, 4 July, 2024, 5 September, 2024, 
6 December, 2024 and 12 March, 2025.
	
9. 	
Corporate Social Responsibility
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“CSR Committee”) comprises 
of five members out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Designation
Attendance
N. S. Vishwanathan
Chairman
3/4*
Rajiv Anand
Member
4/4
Meena Ganesh
Member
4/4
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Member
4/4
Munish Sharda
Member
3/4#
	
	
*Leave of absence was granted to N. S. Vishwanathan from attending the meeting due to family commitments.
	
	
#Leave of absence was granted to Munish Sharda from attending the meeting due to other commitments.
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the CSR Committee, whichever is higher.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, the CSR strategy, themes, focus areas and review mechanism 
including the CSR policy of the Bank.
	
	
(b)	
Review and approve, the CSR projects / programmes to be undertaken by the Bank either directly or through 
Axis Bank Foundation (“ABF”) or through implementation partners as deemed suitable, during the fiscal year 
and specify modalities for its execution and implementation schedules for the same, in terms of the CSR 
policy of the Bank.
	
	
(c)	
Review and approve the funds to be allocated for the CSR projects / programmes to be undertaken by the 
Bank during the fiscal year, in terms of the CSR policy of the Bank, subject to compliance with Section 135(5) 
of the Act.
	
	
(d)	
Review implementation of the CSR policy and annual action plan, such that the CSR project(s) / programme(s) 
that are being proposed to be undertaken are aligned to the Bank’s social, environmental and economic 
activities to the extent possible.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of CSR Committee were held on 18 June, 2024, 11 September, 2024, 
10 December, 2024 and 7 March, 2025.
	
10. 	 Review Committee
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The Review Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“RC”) comprises of three members out of which two 
are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
Amitabh Chaudhry
Chairman
4/4
P. N. Prasad
Member
4/4
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
Member
4/4

Corporate governance
295
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 2/3rd of total strength of the RC, whichever is higher.
	
	
Brief description of the charter
	
	
(a)	
Consider the proposal of the Identification Committee along with the written representation received for 
classification of a borrower / guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and responsible for 
the management of the affairs of the entity, as a willful defaulter.
	
	
(b)	
To put in place a system for proper and timely classification of borrowers as willful defaulters and review the 
efficacy of the said system, at-least on an annual basis.
	
	
(c)	
The accounts of borrowers who have been classified as willful defaulters shall be reviewed by the RC at-least 
on a half-yearly basis and a report thereon shall be placed before the Board, for its review and noting.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of RC were held on 27 May, 2024, 20 September, 2024, 24 December, 2024 and 
18 March, 2025.
	
11. 	 Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers Committee
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The Acquisitions, Divestments and Mergers Committee of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“ADAM”) comprises 
of five members out of which three are Independent Directors.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
N. S. Vishwanathan
Chairman
2/2
Amitabh Chaudhry
Member
1/2*
Meena Ganesh
Member
2/2
Subrat Mohanty
Member
2/2
Pranam Wahi
Member
2/2
	
	
*Leave of absence was granted to Amitabh Chaudhry from attending the meeting due to other commitments.
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the ADAM, whichever is higher.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
The objective of the Committee is to consider any proposals relating to mergers, acquisitions and strategic 
investments and divestments and recommend / approve them in terms of the charter.
	
	
(b)	
Business takeover / acquisition (as distinct from the normal purchase of loans / investment portfolios, 
purchase of assets, etc.)
	
	
(c)	
Strategic investments: acquisition of greater than 25% stake in a company or acquisition of stake in a company 
where the proportion is 25% or lower but where the Bank intends to have management participation. 
Equity / Equity linked investment in a Company / LLP / entity / body corporates (other than in Subsidiary 
/ group entity(ies)) if the overall amount is in excess of `500 crores in one or more tranche. Equity / Equity 
linked investment in Subsidiary Company / group entity(ies) (existing or proposed) if the proposed investment 
amount is in excess of `500 crores per transaction.
	
	
(d)	
Strategic divestments: Sale of an existing business of the Bank (as distinct from the sale of assets in the 
normal course of business, sale to ARCs and fixed assets). Sale of greater than 25% stake in a Company 
/Limited Liability Partnership (“LLP”) / entity / body corporates / Subsidiary Company of the Bank or 
Equity / Equity linked Divestment in a Company / LLP / entity / body corporates / Subsidiary Company if 
the amount of disinvestment is in excess of `500 crores per transaction or Sale of less than 25% stake in a 
Company / LLP / entity / body corporates / Subsidiary Company of the Bank but where the Bank intends to 
give-up management participation which was earlier approved by the Committee.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
296
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, two meetings of ADAM were held on 19 June, 2024 and 18 December 2024.
	
12.	 Committee of Whole-Time Directors
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The Committee of Whole-Time Directors of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“COWTD”) comprises of four 
members.
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
Amitabh Chaudhry
Chairman
12/12
Rajiv Anand
Member
10/12*
Subrat Mohanty
Member
12/12
Munish Sharda
Member
12/12
	
	
 * Leave of absence was granted to Rajiv Anand from attending the meetings due to family commitments.
	
	
Quorum
	
	
If the COWTD consists of three or less members, 100% of the strength of the COWTD. If the COWTD consists of 
more than three members, three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the COWTD, whichever is higher.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Issuance of general / special power of attorney to various officials of the Bank and the subsidiary companies 
of the Bank to do such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be considered necessary or appropriate for and 
on behalf of the Bank.
	
	
(b)	
Approve the allotment of equity shares pursuant to exercise of stock option / unit by eligible employees / 
Directors of the Bank and that of its subsidiary companies, in terms of the relevant employee stock option 
scheme(s) of the Bank.
	
	
(c)	
Approve the allotment of debt securities issued by the Bank, including, but not limited to long term bonds, 
green bonds, non-convertible debentures (“NCDs”), perpetual debt instruments, Tier II capital bonds or such 
other debt securities as may be permitted under the RBI guidelines.
	
	
(d)	
Discuss matters, inter alia, relating to the operations, strategies, business opportunities relating to the Bank 
and / or that of its subsidiaries.
	
	
(e)	
Approve strategic and other investments and divestments up to `500 crores in a Company / LLP / entity /
body corporates in one more or tranche.
	
	
(f)	
Review and approve any proposals on investment and divestments in the share capital of the existing /
proposed subsidiary / group entity(ies) upto `500 crores per transaction.
	
	
(g)	
Any other matter as may be authorised by the Board / Committees or required to be done pursuant to any 
laws, rules, regulations or any internal policies of the Bank.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, twelve meetings of COWTD were held on 22 April, 2024, 21 May, 2024, 24 June, 2024, 
15 July, 2024, 19 August, 2024, 23 September, 2024, 16 October, 2024, 27 November, 2024, 16 December, 2024, 
13 January, 2025, 20 February, 2025 and 24 March, 2025.
	
13.	 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee
	
	
Composition and attendance
	
	
The Environmental, Social and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors Bank (“ESG”) comprises of three 
members out of which two are Independent Directors.

Corporate governance
297
Name of the members
Position
Attendance
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev
Chairman
4/4
Amitabh Chaudhry
Member
4/4
G. Padmanabhan
Member
4/4
	
	
Quorum
	
	
Three members or 1/3rd of the total strength of the ESG Committee, whichever is higher.
	
	
Brief description of the Charter
	
	
(a)	
Guide and assist in setting the Bank’s general strategy with respect to ESG matters.
	
	
(b)	
Consider and bring to the attention of the Board and / or management, current, and emerging ESG topics that 
may be material to the Bank or its stakeholders.
	
	
(c)	
To take note and advise the Board or management, as appropriate, on any significant stakeholder concerns 
relating to ESG matters.
	
	
(d)	
Review the Bank’s ESG-aligned strategy, policies, practices, and disclosures for consistency with respect to 
applicable regulations.
	
	
(e)	
Advise and assist the management in the adoption of ESG performance metrics, targets, and other such 
commitments, and monitor the Bank’s progress.
	
	
Meetings
	
	
During fiscal 2025, four meetings of the ESG Committee were held on 10 June, 2024, 19 September, 2024, 
5 December, 2024 and 11 March, 2025.
	
	
Management Committee
	
	
The Management Committee (“MANCOM”) has been constituted as part of the governance and administrative 
structure of the Bank. The MANCOM comprises of the Managing Director & CEO, Deputy MD, Executive Directors 
and group executives, head – human resources, other senior leaders, as appointed from time to time.
	
	
The MANCOM meets regularly to review matters, inter alia, relating to business strategy & business performance, 
financial reports & integrity, risk, compliance, customer experience & marketing, financial inclusion, human capital 
and any other matters considered important by the Committee including those specified under various policies of 
the Bank.
	
	
Separate meeting of Independent Directors
	
	
During fiscal 2025, the Independent Directors of the Bank met on 24 April, 2024, 24 July, 2024, 17 October 2024 
and 16 January, 2025, without the presence of Whole-Time Directors and other members of management. During 
these meetings, the Independent Directors discussed various performance, operational and governance aspects 
of the Bank and Board performance evaluation.
	
	
Thereafter, the Independent Directors at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025, discussed the report of the Board 
performance evaluation exercise for fiscal 2025 and evaluated the performance of the Non-Independent Directors, 
the Board as a whole and the Chairperson of the Bank and assessed the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of 
information between the management and the Board, in accordance with Para VII to Schedule IV of the Act.
V.	
Board Performance Evaluation
	
The Bank believes that the annual performance evaluation of the Board plays a vital role in enhancing the Board’s 
effectiveness. The performance evaluation of Board, its Committees, Chairperson and individual Directors was done in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
298
	
The NRC finalized the parameters, methodology and mechanism for conducting the Board performance evaluation 
for fiscal 2025. The questionnaire related to Board evaluation was reviewed and finalised and then structured online 
questionnaires were deployed for the said evaluation. To enhance objectivity and ensure confidentiality an independent 
external agency was engaged to conduct the performance evaluation through an online tool thereby ensuring a seamless 
execution and facilitating a candid participation of every Director.
	
The independent external agency also had one-on one discussion with all the Directors with respect to their response 
to the questionnaire.
	
Board Evaluation
	
The Board was evaluated on parameters such as governance, strategic planning, audit and compliance, identification 
and management of risks, human resource, Board’s relationship with executive management, customer grievance / 
protection, financial inclusion, Board functioning, induction and professional development and flow of information.
	
Committee Evaluation
	
All the 13 Board Committees were individually evaluated on a common questionnaire as well as tailored depending 
upon the mandate of each Committee. The Committees were evaluated based on criteria such as composition and 
quality (qualifications, skills, experience and knowledge of members), discharge of responsibilities as mentioned in the 
terms of reference of the Committee, planning of meetings to ensure adequate time is provided for significant and 
emerging items, independent functioning of Committee, comprehensiveness of agenda papers and minutes, quality 
of deliberation and discussion at meetings, contribution of members, action taken reports, communication between 
Committee members and management, directions and instructions provided by the Committee resulting in major 
improvements in the Bank’s functioning, etc.
	
Chairperson Evaluation
	
Chairperson performance evaluation was based on parameters covering open-mindedness, decisiveness, 
professionalism, courtesy extended to other members and ability to steer the meetings and discussions, impartiality, 
encouraging dissent, facilitating consensus building, knowledge of the industry complexity and surfacing issues of 
strategic importance.
	
Individual Directors
	
Individual Director’s effectiveness was based on parameters such as knowledge and expertise, active participation and 
contribution during meetings, regularity and punctuality in attending meetings, preparation for meetings and keeping 
oneself abreast of matters, collaborative relationship with other Directors, leadership, openness to others’ input and 
acceptance of constructive feedback, uninhibited participation in meetings and willingness to bring forth their insights 
and integrity.
	
Outcome of Evaluation
	
The outcome of the said performance evaluation was reviewed by the NRC at its meeting held on 23 April, 2025 and by 
the Independent Directors at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025. The Board also reviewed the performance evaluation 
report, outcome and action areas at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025.
	
The disclosure in terms of SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2018/79 dated 10 May, 2018, on ‘Board 
evaluation’, is detailed as under:
	
1.	
Observations of Board evaluation carried out for the year: Eight observations emanated from the Board 
performance evaluation for fiscal 2025, which are detailed as under:
	
	
(a)	
Making the agenda notes for Board and Committees concise without compromising on the material 
information for better prioritization and focussed discussions.
	
	
(b)	
Issues such as strategic oversight on business performance, market trends and underperforming areas, be 
given priority.
	
	
(c)	
Focus and identify issues in enhancing financial inclusion and not just priority sector lending.

Corporate governance
299
	
	
(d)	
Drive programs to enhance risk and compliance culture across all levels and explore advanced tech tools and 
AI for early detection in fraud-prone areas.
	
	
(e)	
CSR Committee to consider periodic site visits to assess on-ground effectiveness of CSR efforts.
	
	
(f)	
Focus on grievance handling to reduce escalations to internal ombudsmen.
	
	
(g)	
Integrate ESG and climate agenda into long-term strategy.
	
	
(h)	
Common agenda items being placed to multiple Board Committees that oversee assurance functions be 
discussed in a joint meeting which is attended by the members of all those Committees.
	
2.	
Previous year’s observations and actions taken: Six observations had emanated from the Board performance 
evaluation for fiscal 2024. These related to:
	
	
(a)	
Update the Board on current areas of focus and measures taken to improve customer service and contain 
customer grievances.
	
	
(b)	
Co-opting an expert who can be a special invitee to the meetings of the ESG Committee.
	
	
(c)	
Plan for additional bespoke programme for Directors, based on their feedback.
	
	
(d)	
Update the Board on measures taken to move the needle on the financial inclusion in a more substantive 
manner.
	
	
(e)	
Improve quality of agenda papers to make them more concise without missing the important details.
	
	
(f) 	 Institute feedback mechanism to apprise the Board on the progress made on the areas for improvement 
identified by the Board.
	
	
The Bank has complied with the said observations, which have been reviewed by the NRC and the Board.
	
3.	
Proposed actions based on current year observations: The Bank has accepted all the observations made by the 
Board emanating from the Board performance evaluation for fiscal 2025. The status of compliance with the said 
observations will be reviewed by the NRC and the Board during the course of fiscal 2026.
VI.	 Remuneration Policy
	
The Bank’s remuneration practices are underpinned by principles of meritocracy and fairness. The Bank strives to 
maintain strong focus in the areas of compensation governance and ensures the compensation systems are in line with 
emerging compensation regulations as applicable. The remuneration system strives to maintain the ability to attract, 
retain, reward and motivate talent in order to enable the Bank to attain its strategic objectives within the increasingly 
competitive context in which it operates. The Bank’s pay-for-performance approach strives to ensure that both internal 
and external equity are in line with the emerging market trends.
	
The Bank has formulated and adopted a remuneration policy for Non-Executive Chairperson and Non-Executive 
Directors of the Bank which provides guidelines for payment of remuneration to the Non-Executive Chairperson and 
Non-Executive Directors of the Bank.
	
The Bank has also formulated a remuneration policy for Managing Director & CEO, Whole-Time Directors, material 
risk takers, control function staff and other employees of the Bank, in terms of the provisions of the Act, SEBI Listing 
Regulations and ‘Guidelines on compensation of whole-time directors / chief executive officers / material risk takers and 
control function staff’ issued by the RBI on 4 November, 2019. This remuneration policy, inter alia, contains guidelines 
relating to compensation structure consisting of fixed pay, variable pay, employee stock options, compensation 
revision cycle and framework regarding malus / clawback. During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved 
amendments to both the policies, in line with the extant laws.
	
The above policies are available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
corporate-governance.
	
The remuneration paid to all the employees / Managing Director & CEO / Deputy MD / Whole-Time Directors of the 
Bank, for fiscal 2025, is in accordance with the aforesaid remuneration policy.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
300
VII.	 Remuneration of Directors
	
A.	
Executive / Whole-Time Directors
	
	
The details of remuneration paid to Managing Director & CEO, Deputy MD and Executive Directors during fiscal 
2025, is as under:
(in ` )
Particulars
Amitabh Chaudhry
Rajiv Anand
Subrat Mohanty
Munish Sharda
Salary (Basic)
4,77,01,380
2,97,58,152
2,34,33,360
2,34,33,360
Leave fare concession facility
9,99,996
5,49,996
6,81,996
5,49,996
House rent allowance
1,32,50,388
98,20,188
77,33,004
77,33,004
Variable pay (2023-24)
1,04,73,530
1,19,50,935
97,79,815
93,45,421
Variable pay (2022-23)
33,00,000
37,12,500
27,43,291
31,49,981
Variable pay (2021-22)
31,68,000
35,31,000
19,24,525
12,36,204
Variable pay (2020-21)
30,26,000
20,04,652
8,47,670
-
Superannuation allowance / fund
47,70,138
29,75,816
23,43,337
22,07,646
Utility allowance
3,75,000
1,32,000
1,32,000
1,32,000
Perquisites* (excluding ESOP)
40,71,553
34,17,412
24,67,190
40,02,575
Unutilised car benefit
-
2,75,919
11,66,389
1,68,332
Provident fund (Bank’s Contribution)
12% of Basic
12% of Basic
12% of Basic
12% of Basic
Gratuity
One month’s salary 
for each completed 
year of service
One month’s salary 
for each completed 
year of service
One month’s salary 
for each completed 
year of service
One month’s salary 
for each completed 
year of service
	
	
*Perquisites (evaluated as per Income Tax Rules, 1962, wherever applicable, or otherwise at actual cost to the Bank) such as Bank’s 
furnished accommodation, electricity, water and furnishings, club fees, personal accident insurance, loans, use of car and telephone 
at residence, medical reimbursement, travelling and halting allowances, newspapers and periodicals and others were provided in 
accordance with the Rules of the Bank.
	
	
1.	
Amitabh Chaudhry and Rajiv Anand were granted 2,59,429 and 1,83,381 stock options respectively for fiscal 
2024. Subrat Mohanty and Munish Sharda were granted 97,996 and 13,157 stock options respectively for 
fiscal 2024 for their tenure as Executive Directors. The approval for the grants were received from the RBI in 
fiscal 2025.
	
	
	
The stock options were granted at `1,063.25 per share which was the closing market price prevailing on the 
day prior to the date of grant on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (the “NSE’’).
	
	
	
The vesting schedule for the said stock options is spread over 4 (four) years @ 25% every year (commencing 
on expiry of one year from the date of grant).
	
	
2.	
The Bank as a policy, does not pay any severance fees to its Whole-Time Directors. The tenure of the office 
of Whole-Time Directors is for a period of three years from the date of their respective appointment / 
re-appointment, as approved by the RBI and the same can be terminated by either party by giving three 
months’ notice in writing. The termination of services shall be in compliance with the provisions of Section 35B 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
	
	
3.	
The Whole-Time Directors of the Bank are not entitled to receive any sitting fees from the Bank or from its 
subsidiary companies, for attending meetings of the Board and its Committees. Further, they do not receive 
any remuneration from any of the subsidiary companies of the Bank.
	
	
4.	
The proposals for revision in remuneration of Amitabh Chaudhry, Rajiv Anand, Subrat Mohanty and Munish 
Sharda were approved by the shareholders of the Bank at the 30th AGM. All the proposals were passed as 
ordinary resolutions which received 99.20% of votes in favour of the proposal.

Corporate governance
301
	
B.	
Independent / Nominee Directors
	
	
The remuneration framework for the Independent and Nominee Directors of the Bank has been meticulously 
structured to ensure compliance with regulatory standards and to recognize the vital contribution of these 
Directors towards the governance and strategic direction of the Bank.
	
	
Sitting Fees Structure: All the Independent and Nominee Directors of the Bank were paid sitting fees of `100,000 
for every meeting of the Board, NRC, ACB, COD, RMC and ITDSC attended by them. In respect of meetings of 
other Committees of the Board, they were paid sitting fees of `75,000 for every meeting attended by them. 
Further, all the Independent Directors of the Bank were paid sitting fees of `100,000 for attending every meeting 
of the Independent Directors. The Board at its meeting held on 22 March, 2025 has increased the sitting fees in 
respect of attending the CSC meeting from `75,000 to `1,00,000 per meeting with effect from 1 April, 2025.
	
	
Fixed Remuneration: In accordance with the RBI circular dated 9 February, 2024 on ‘review of fixed 
remuneration granted to Non-Executive Directors (NEDs)’, as amended from time to time, the Bank paid fixed 
remuneration to its Non-Executive Directors (except the Independent Part-Time Chairman) not exceeding 
`30 lakhs per annum per Director.
	
	
Reimbursements and other Entitlements: All Directors are eligible for reimbursement of expenses incurred while 
performing their duties. The Bank does not grant stock options to its Independent or Nominee Directors.
	
	
Non-Executive Part-Time Chairman: In addition to sitting fees and remuneration, N. S. Vishwanathan, 
Non-Executive Part-Time Chairman, is entitled to use of Bank’s car for official and private purposes, travel, stay 
and other expenses for official purposes.
	
	
Payment of Remuneration to Non-Executive (Nominee of LIC, Promoter) Director: The sitting fees to Mini Ipe 
was paid to her, whereas fixed remuneration was paid to LIC, as per advice from LIC.
	
	
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions of Non-Executive Directors vis-a-vis the Bank (except 
banking transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis) during fiscal 2025.
	
	
The details of the remuneration paid to Independent Directors and Nominee Director during fiscal 2025, are as 
under:
(in `)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Directors
Designation
Sitting Fees
Fixed 
Remuneration
1.
N. S. Vishwanathan
Independent Director and Part-Time Chairman
31,00,000
35,00,000
2.
Girish Paranjpe
Independent Director
50,00,000
27,00,000
3.
Meena Ganesh
Independent Director
44,50,000
27,00,000
4.
G. Padmanabhan
Independent Director
29,00,000
27,00,000
5.
Prof. S. Mahendra Dev 
Independent Director
51,00,000
27,00,000
6
P. N. Prasad
Independent Director
36,50,000
27,00,000
7.
CH SS Mallikarjunarao
Independent Director
35,50,000
27,00,000
8.
Mini Ipe
Non-Executive Nominee Director
43,00,000
27,00,000
9.
Pranam Wahi
Independent Director
35,50,000
25,00,000
Total
3,56,00,000
2,49,00,000
VIII.	Fees paid to Statutory Auditors
	
The details of fees for all services availed by the Bank and its subsidiary companies, on a consolidated basis, from the 
Joint Statutory Auditors, M/s. M P Chitale & Co. and M/s. C N K & Associates LLP (whose term ended at the conclusion 
of the 30th AGM held on 26 July, 2024) and Joint Statutory Auditors, M/s. M M Nissim & Co. LLP and M/s. KKC & 
Associates LLP (appointed at the 30th AGM held on 26 July 2024) and all entities in the network firm / network entity 
of which the aforesaid Joint Statutory Auditors are part thereof, during fiscal 2025, is as under:

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
302
(in `)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Amount1
1.
Audit Fees
3,76,25,000
2.
Fees for certification and other attest services2
1,35,70,050
3.
Non Audit Fees
-
Total
5,11,95,050
	
1 The fees excludes taxes, clerkage fees and out of pocket expenses.
	
2 The services of the Statutory Auditors have been obtained during the normal course of business for compliance with statutes and the 
guidelines of various regulators like SEBI, RBI etc. which specifically require the statutory auditor to undertake these activities and are not 
in the nature of management assurance.
	
3 M/s. C N K & Associates LLP,  one of the Joint Statutory Auditors (whose term ended at the conclusion of the  30th AGM held on 26 July 
2024), was appointed as the Statutory Auditor of Axis Trustee Services Limited, which is a subsidiary of the Bank, for a period of 5 years 
commencing from fiscal 2025. The aforementioned fee includes fees paid by Axis Trustee Services Limited to M/s. C N K & Associates LLP 
for audit services provided in Q1FY25.  Other than the aforementioned, no services have been availed by the subsidiaries of the Bank from 
any of the Joint Statutory Auditors.
	
4 The said fees have been reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee of the Bank / Board of the subsidiary as applicable.
IX.	 Details of utilisation of funds raised through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutional Placement
	
During the year, the Bank has not raised any funds through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement 
of equity shares pursuant to Regulation 32 (7A) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
X.	 Disclosure in terms of the sexual harassment of women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013
	
The Bank has formulated and adopted a policy on prevention of sexual harassment at workplace (“the policy”) and 
takes all necessary measures to ensure a harassment-free workplace. The Bank believes that all employees, including 
other individuals who are dealing with the Bank have the right to be treated with dignity. The abridged version of 
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace policy is available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
	
A Central Internal Committee (“CIC”) has been instituted for redressal of complaints and to prevent sexual harassment. 
Additionally, four Regional Internal Committees (“RIC”) have been constituted to facilitate investigations at four regions 
(north, south, east and west) of the Bank.
	
The CIC is empowered to take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee(s) who is found to have violated the 
norms prescribed under the said policy.
	
The following is the summary of sexual harassment complaints received and disposed of by the Bank, during fiscal 
2025:
Particulars
No. of Complaints
Number of complaints pending at the start of the fiscal year
8
Number of complaints of sexual harassment filed during the fiscal year
54
Number of complaints disposed off during the fiscal year
50
Number of complaints pending as on the end of the fiscal year
12
	
Number of workshops / awareness programmes conducted against sexual harassment: 33.
	
Nature of action taken by the Employer or District Officer: As per the Bank’s Code of Conduct & Ethics.
XI.	 Employee Accidental Deaths
	
During fiscal 2025, there were no instances of employee accidents or accidental death at workplace.

Corporate governance
303
XII.	 Whistleblower Policy & Vigil Mechanism
	
The Whistleblower channel provides a secure way for employees to escalate concerns regarding any non-compliance / 
violations in the Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics which includes non-adherence to laid down guidelines of the Bank, 
conflict of interest, fraud, misuse of delegated powers, misappropriation, any form of corruption, data leakage, etc.
	
This Whistleblower Policy gives Whistleblower(s) a platform to report their concerns / grievances without fear of 
retribution or vengeful action from the persons against whom the Protected Disclosure was submitted, in addition to 
providing for requisite actions to be taken on a Protected Disclosure being received by the Bank.
	
Complete protection is given to the Whistleblower against retaliation or retribution consequent upon his/her having 
reported a Protected Disclosure. In the event the Whistleblower experiences any such incidents, the Whistleblower 
should immediately report the same as specified in whistleblower policy. The Bank will take steps to minimize difficulties 
that a Whistleblower may face in the submission of a Protected Disclosure. If the offences are committed by senior 
management, the policy enables the Banks staff to request concerns to the ACB.
	
The Bank’s policy meets the requirements with all the applicable rules and regulations, including (a) Act (b) SEBI 
Listing Regulations (c) the RBI scheme on ‘Protected Disclosures Scheme for Private Sector and Foreign Banks, and 
(d) RBI Master Directions on Fraud Risk Management in Commercial Banks (including Regional Rural Banks) and All 
India Financial Institutions.
	
To ensure smooth flow and management of complaints under the policy, a web-based application -‘https://whistleblower.
axisbank.co.in’ is available for filing protected disclosures, including anonymous whistleblower complaints containing 
specific and verifiable information, without fear of revelation of identity. The policy contains provisions for protecting 
whistleblowers from any unfair action prejudicial to their interest.
	
The Bank has not denied access to any of its employees to the Chairman of the ACB and that the policy contains 
adequate provisions for protecting whistleblowers from unfair termination and other unfair prejudicial and employment 
practices.
	
A quarterly report on the findings under the said Policy is submitted to the ACB for information.
	
Total whistleblower complaints received by the Bank in fiscal 2025: 673.
	
No. of whistleblower complaints pending resolution as on 31 March, 2025: 360.
	
The details of the abridged version of whistleblower policy are available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.
com/webforms/code-of-commitment and https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
XIII.	Subsidiary Companies
	
As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank does not have any unlisted Indian subsidiary company, which could be deemed to be a 
material subsidiary, in terms of Regulation 16(1)(c) read with Regulation 24(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. All matters 
relating to subsidiary governance is overseen by the Board and Board Committees and operationalized under the aegis 
of Subsidiary Governance Committee (”SGC”) of the Bank. The SGC meets as and when required and at least once every 
quarter.
	
The minutes of the meetings of the Board of all unlisted subsidiary companies of the Bank are tabled at the meetings 
of the Board of the Bank. The minutes of the meetings of the ACB of unlisted subsidiary companies of the Bank are 
tabled at the meetings of the ACB of the Bank. A snapshot of the customer complaints which are received by subsidiary 
companies of the Bank along with the remedial measures are placed before CSC of the Board of the Bank.
	
ACB reviews the investments made by subsidiaries. Further, it also evaluates the statement of all significant transactions 
and arrangements entered by subsidiary companies and the compliances of each materially significant subsidiary on a 
periodic basis.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
304
	
The RBI has identified Axis Group as a Financial Conglomerate (“FC”) under the Inter Regulatory Forum (“IRF”) 
mechanism which necessitates continuous oversight on subsidiary companies. The oversight on Bank’s subsidiaries is 
an essential element for the implementation of well aligned corporate governance principles across group entities. It 
assists in integration of “One Axis” theme of the Bank, by sharing uniform practices across the Group and building up 
synergy in common practices thereby creating value and investor confidence.
	
The Bank has put in place a comprehensive subsidiary engagement framework encompassing functional alignment in 
multiple areas viz. Risk, Compliance, Audit, Finance, Corporate Secretarial, Human Resources, Information Technology 
and Legal as well as more integrative domains viz. Cyber Security, Brand Usage and Marketing, Corporate Communication 
and Ethics with the end objective of delivering ‘One Axis’ across the Group.
XIV.	Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries
	
As required under Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has formulated and adopted a policy 
for determining material subsidiaries (the “policy”). During the year, the policy for determining material subsidiaries 
has been reviewed by the RMC and the Board. The same policy has been hosted on the website of the Bank at 
https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
XV.	 Directors and Officers Insurance
	
The Bank has a Directors and Officers Insurance policy in place which protects the Directors and Officers of the Bank 
from any claims for any actual or alleged breach of their fiduciary duties.
XVI.	Insider Trading
	
The Bank has a share dealing code and the code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price 
sensitive information (“UPSI”) of the Bank, in line with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
(the “Insider Trading Regulations”), as amended from time to time.
	
The share dealing code of the Bank comprises of Chapter A which is applicable to ‘designated persons’ and their 
immediate relatives for trading in securities of the Bank and Chapter B which is applicable to ‘persons designated for 
restricted list’ and their immediate relatives for trading in securities of Listed Client Companies (“LCC”).
	
The Bank in the ordinary course of its business, is likely to be entrusted with UPSI by LCC, hence it is expected to 
discharge its fiduciary obligations by maintaining confidentiality of such UPSI, in the interest of such LCC, and in 
compliance with the Insider Trading Regulations. The Compliance Officer has taken necessary steps to restrict the 
persons designated under restricted list from trading in securities of such LCCs.
	
The Bank has adequate and effective systems, internal controls and processes, to ensure compliance with the provisions 
of the share dealing code, the code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of UPSI and the Insider Trading 
Regulations. The Bank conducts awareness programmes and circulates Do’s and Dont’s, for the designated persons, 
from time to time. During fiscal 2025, the Board also reviewed and approved amendments to the said codes, in line with 
the extant laws.
	
The Compliance Officer of the Bank provides violation reports to the ACB on a quarterly basis. On an annual basis, 
ACB reviews the compliance with the provisions of Insider Trading Regulations and verifies that the systems for internal 
control are adequate and are operating effectively.
	
The Bank has also formulated and adopted the policy for determination of materiality of events / information of the 
Bank, in terms of Regulation 30 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. During fiscal 2025, the Board reviewed and approved 
the amendments to the policy, in line with the extant laws. The policy for determination of materiality of events / 
information and the code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of UPSI of the Bank have been uploaded 
on the website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/corporate-governance in compliance with the said 
Regulations.

Corporate governance
305
XVII.	 Compliance Certificate
	
 Pursuant to Regulation 17(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a quarterly confirmation on laws applicable to the Bank 
is obtained from the relevant heads of departments by the compliance department. A report duly signed by the 
Chief Compliance Officer of the Bank confirming compliances with applicable laws, is placed before the ACB and the 
Board on a quarterly basis.
XVIII.	 CEO & CFO Certification
	
 A certificate issued by Amitabh Chaudhry, Managing Director & CEO, and Puneet Sharma, Group Executive & Chief 
Financial Officer of the Bank, for the fiscal 2025, was placed before the Board at its meeting held on 25 April, 2025, in 
terms of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The said certificate is attached as Annexure 1 to this report.
XIX.	 Directors E-KYC
	
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (the “MCA”) has vide amendment to the Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, mandated registration of KYC of all the Directors through e-form DIR-3 KYC. All Directors 
of the Bank have complied with the aforesaid requirement.
XX.	 Other Disclosures
	
 Related Party Transactions
	
 All related party transactions (“RPTs”) and subsequent modifications, if any, thereto are placed before the ACB for 
review and approval. Prior omnibus approval is obtained for RPTs for transactions which are of repetitive nature and 
entered in the ordinary course of business and are at arm’s length. RPTs executed pursuant to requisite approvals, are 
reviewed on a quarterly basis.
	
 During fiscal 2025, the Bank has not entered into any materially significant transactions with its related parties which 
could lead to potential conflict of interest between the Bank and these parties, other than transactions entered into 
with them in the ordinary course of its business.
	
 The policy on related party transactions is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/corporate-governance.
	
 Particulars of Senior Management
	
 As of 31 March, 2025, the Bank had following senior management personnel as defined under Regulation 16(1)(d) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations:
Sr 
No.
Name
Designation
1
Prashant Joshi
Group Executive & Chief Credit Officer
2
Neeraj Gambhir
Group Executive - Treasury & Markets and Wholesale Banking Products
3
Puneet Mahendra Sharma
Group Executive & Chief Financial Officer
4
Arjun Chowdhry
Group Executive – Affluent Banking, Retail Lending, NRI, Cards & Payments
5
Vijay Krishna Mulbagal
Group Executive – Strategic Programs & Sustainability
6
Amit Talgeri
Chief Risk Officer
7
Bimal Bhattacharyya
Interim Chief Audit Executive
8
Anuranjan Kumar
Chief Compliance Officer
9
Rajkamal Vempati
President - Human Resources
10
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
306
	
Changes in Senior Management
	
During fiscal 2025, following were the changes in the senior management personnel of the Bank:
Sr. No.
Name of Employee
Designation
Date of change
Type of change
1
Bimal Bhattacharyya
Chief Compliance Officer
13 June, 2024
Cessation
2
Anuranjan Kumar
Chief Compliance Officer
14 June, 2024
Appointment
3
Sumit Bali
Group Executive
16 August, 2024
Cessation
4
Ganesh Sankaran
Group Executive
30 November, 2024
Cessation
5
S. Bhaskar
Chief Audit Executive
3 February, 2025
Appointment
6
Vineet Agrawal
Chief Audit Executive
3 February, 2025
Cessation
7
S. Bhaskar
Chief Audit Executive
13 February, 2025
Cessation
8
Bimal Bhattacharyya
Interim Chief Audit Executive
14 February, 2025
Appointment
	
Transactions of Senior Management
	
The members of the senior management of the Bank have affirmed that they have not entered into any material, 
financial or commercial transaction wherein they have personal interest and which may potentially conflict with the 
interest of the Bank at large.
	
Instances of Non-Compliance
	
There were no instances of non-compliance by the Bank or penalties and strictures imposed by the stock exchange(s) 
or SEBI or other statutory authorities on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years, except the 
following:
	
(i)	
SEBI had carried out inspection of the Designated Depository Participant (“DDP”) activities of the Bank for fiscal 
2021. During the inspection, SEBI observed that the designated Compliance Officer was undertaking operational 
activity by acting as a checker, there was no employee other than the Compliance Officer for carrying out DDP 
operations from April 2021 to June 2021. SEBI also observed that there were discrepancy in the report of DDP 
and NSDL, operational manual was not updated, KYC review was not done for two clients and fees were collected 
from FPI prior to receipt of application. In view of the above, SEBI issued an administrative warning on 9 March, 
2023, which was received by the Bank on 21 April, 2023. The Bank has taken corrective actions and submitted its 
response to SEBI on 27 April, 2023.
	
(ii)	
SEBI carried out inspection of the Custodian activities of the Bank for fiscal 2022 and issued administrative 
warning on 28 August, 2023 based on the observations made during the inspection. The Bank has taken necessary 
actions and submitted its response to SEBI on 12 September, 2023.
	
(iii)	 SEBI has issued letter dated 4 February, 2025 to Bank as a DDP on advisory on timely submission of reports 
through SEBI Intermediary Portal. There were 2 (two) instances of delay in filing of report on SEBI SI portal as 
mentioned in SEBI advisory letter. In both the instances initial report filing was done by CCMO / DDP Team 
within the SEBI specified deadline on SEBI SI Portal. In one instance, after consultation with SEBI on approach / 
criteria the report was revised and in coordination with SEBI and after re-opening of SI Portal by SEBI, the report 
was refiled on SEBI portal (post due date). In another instance, based on internal audit department observation, 
the report was revised and refiled on SEBI SI portal (post due date) after requesting and re-opening of SI Portal 
by SEBI. While re-opening the SI Portal by SEBI in December 2024, no objections were raised by SEBI, however, 
subsequently SEBI has sent letter dated 4 February 2025 advising Bank not to repeat instance of filing of periodic 
reports with a delay for the month January 2025 and onwards. An additional check by way of the concurrent audit 
(external auditor) has been put in place who will independently validate the report prior to filing of report on SEBI 
SI Portal.
	
(iv)	 SEBI had carried our inspection of the Depository Participant (“DP”) activities of the Bank in July 2024 and issued 
Deficiency Letter on 31 December, 2024 (the letter was recalled by SEBI and revised letter was received on 
20 February, 2025 with same date of 31 December, 2024) based on the observations made during the inspection. 
The Bank has taken necessary actions and submitted its response to SEBI on 18 March 2025.

Corporate governance
307
	
Certificate on non-disqualification of Directors
	
M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Company Secretaries, Secretarial Auditors has certified that none of the Directors of the 
Bank have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a director of the Bank by SEBI / MCA 
or any other statutory / regulatory authority. The said certificate is annexed to the Board’s Report.
	
Compliance with governance norms
	
The Bank is in compliance with Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D 
and E and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Further, the Bank has also complied with all the mandatory 
requirements, as prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to corporate governance.
	
Except for sending half-yearly financial results to the shareholders, the Bank has adopted all the other non-mandatory 
requirements mentioned in Part E of Schedule II of SEBI Listing Regulations, detailed as under:
	
(i)	
Maintenance of Chairperson’s office at the Bank’s expense and reimbursement of expenses incurred by the 
Non-Executive Chairperson in performance of his duties.
	
(ii)	
Separate post of Chairperson and Managing Director & CEO.
	
(iii)	 Regime of financial statements with unmodified audit opinion.
	
(iv)	 Chief Audit Executive directly reporting to the ACB.
	
(v)	
Holding at least two meetings of Independent Directors in a financial year, without the presence of 
Non-Independent Directors and members of the management.
	
The Bank has obtained a certificate from its Joint Statutory Auditors, M M Nissim & Co. LLP (Registration No. 
107122W/W100672), Chartered Accountants, Mumbai, confirming that the Bank has complied with the provisions of 
Corporate Governance for fiscal 2025, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) 
and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations. The said certificate is annexed at the start of 
this report.
	
The Bank has not been informed of any agreement under Regulation 30A(1) read with clause 5A of paragraph A of 
Part A of Schedule III of the SEBI Listing Regulations during fiscal 2025. Accordingly there is no requirement for 
disclosing the same.
	
Codes of Conduct
	
The Board has formulated and adopted the code of conduct and conflict of interest norms for the Board of Directors, 
and the code of conduct and ethics of the Bank, in terms of Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to 
corporate governance together referred to as the codes.
	
The code of conduct and ethics of the Bank reflects the Bank’s commitment to integrity and the highest standards of 
ethical practices. It defines the standards of conduct that is expected of all employees in order that the right decisions 
are taken in performing their roles and responsibilities across various functions in the Bank.
	
The code of conduct and ethics of the Bank is intended to be the charter for day-to-day work, to enable employees 
to make the right decisions and, therefore, serves to (1) underline the fundamental commitment to compliance with 
regulatory guidelines and laws of the land, and (2) set forth basic parameters of ethical and acceptable social behavior.
	
The Bank’s core values have been articulated as: customer centricity, ethics, transparency, teamwork and ownership 
and these define the manner in which we deal with our stakeholders.
	
Every employee annually affirms to abide by the code of conduct and ethics of the Bank. Further, the aforesaid codes 
require employees, including the senior management of the Bank, to maintain highest levels of professional and personal 
integrity to avoid situations in which an individual’s personal interest may conflict with either the interest of the Bank or 
that of its stakeholders. Prior approvals are required to be sought before accepting any position of responsibility, with 
or without remuneration, in any other organisation.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
308
	
The said codes have been hosted on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
corporate-governance in compliance with the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
The certificate issued by the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank confirming that all the Directors and members of 
the senior management of the Bank have affirmed compliance with the said codes as applicable to them, is attached as 
Annexure 2 to this report.
	
Compliance
	
The Bank has a ‘Governance Compliance Manager’ (“GCM”) system in place to track and monitor the implementation of 
Regulations applicable to the Bank.
	
The changes in regulatory guidelines or new regulatory guidelines are tracked and updated in GCM system. These are then 
disseminated along with action points to the respective units / departments for implementation.
	
The compliance department conducts independent assessment of status of compliance as well as compliance risk for all 
the units across the Bank & reports to the ACB as well as to the Board, at regular intervals.
	
Sustainability
	
The Bank recognizes the critical importance of material aspects of ESG in creating value for all stakeholders. The 
Bank was the first Indian bank to establish an ESG Committee of the Board in 2021, that enabled the Bank to bring 
a myriad of ESG-aligned activities under a unified and comprehensive approach. Bank’s purpose – banking for an 
equitable and inclusive economy, thriving communities, and a healthier planet – underscores its role as a responsible 
financial institution. Guided by the ESG Committee, the Bank continues to focus on strengthening its business activities 
aligned to the global climate action agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. The Bank has in place pertinent 
policies such as the ESG policy for Lending and the Sustainable Financing Framework, among others, that provide a 
strong governance oversight to its activities. The Bank continues to disclose its ESG-aligned performance in line with 
international frameworks such as Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standards, Integrated Reporting (“IR”) Framework 
and Taskforce on Climate-related Financial disclosures (“TCFD”) recommendations. During fiscal 2025, the Bank was 
the first Indian private sector Bank to partner with IFC to provide a $500 million loan to help develop a blue finance 
market and scale up financing of green projects in India.
	
Vendor Processes and Supplier Code of Conduct
	
The Bank follows a vendor onboarding policy outlining the vendor identification and selection processes. A vendor 
onboarding platform is integrated on the website of the Bank that provides them with a fair opportunity to apply to the 
Bank with their respective proposals. Post receipt of such proposals, the vendors are evaluated for selection based on 
the principles and processes formulated.
	
The Bank has also formulated a ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’ (the “Code”) which aims to articulate the minimum standards 
of conduct and ethical principles that the Bank expects all its suppliers to imbibe and comply with.
	
The Code provides for reporting of concerns by suppliers. The Bank has also developed an online mechanism for 
reporting of concerns by its suppliers. With this practice, the Bank lays the foundation for building and retaining 
business relationships based on ethical values to realize sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits.

Corporate governance
309
Annexure 1
CEO / CFO CERTIFICATION AS PER REGULATION 17(8) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATION, 2015
The Board of Directors
Axis Bank Limited
In terms of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations, we certify that:
a)	
We have reviewed the audited financial statements and the cash flow statement for the fiscal year ended 
31 March, 2025 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
(i)	
These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading;
	
(ii)	
These statements together present a true and fair view of the Bank’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b)	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions which have been entered into by the Bank during 
the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Bank’s code of conduct.
c)	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Bank pertaining to financial reporting and we have 
disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if 
any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
d)	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee:
	
(i)	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
(ii)	
significant changes in accounting policies during the year, if any, and that the same have been disclosed in the 
notes to the audited financial statements; and
	
(iii)	 instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or an employee having a significant role in the Bank’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Amitabh Chaudhry	
Puneet Sharma
Managing Director & CEO	
Group Executive & CFO
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April, 2025

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
310
Annexure 2
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF CONDUCT AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST NORMS IN RESPECT OF 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS OF THE BANK, FOR THE FISCAL 2025
I confirm that for the year under review, all the directors and members of the senior management of the Bank, have affirmed 
compliance with the said codes, as applicable to them.
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
Place: Mumbai
Date: 25 April, 2025

Corporate governance
311
General Shareholder Information
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI Listing Regulations”)]
Contact Information
Registered Office
Corporate Office
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”)
Axis Bank Limited
[CIN: L65110GJ1993PLC020769]
‘Trishul’, 3rd Floor, Opp. Samartheshwar 
Temple, Law Garden, Ellisbridge,
Ahmedabad – 380 006,
Gujarat
Tel. no.: +91 79 6630 6161
Email: shareholders@axisbank.com
Website: www.axisbank.com
Axis Bank Limited
‘Axis House’, C-2,
Pandurang Budhkar Marg,
Worli, Mumbai – 400 025,
Maharashtra
Tel. no.: +91 22 2425 2525
Fax no.: +91 22 2425 1800
Email: shareholders@axisbank.com
Website: www.axisbank.com
KFin Technologies Limited (“KFIN”)
Unit: Axis Bank Limited
Selenium Building, Tower – B, 
Plot nos. 31 & 32,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally, Hyderabad – 500 032,
Telangana
Tel. no.: +91 40 7961 5565
Toll free no.: 1800 3094 001
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Debenture Trustees
Depository for Global Depository Receipts
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
Universal Insurance Building, Ground Floor, 
Sir P. M Road, Fort,
Mumbai – 400 001, Maharashtra
Tel. no.: +91 22 4080 7000;
+ 91 8097474599
Fax no.: +91 22 6631 1776
Email: itsl@idbitrustee.com
Website: www.idbitrustee.com
SBICAP Trustee Company Limited
Mistry Bhavan, 4th Floor,
122 Dinshaw Vachha Road,
Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020, 
Maharashtra
Tel. no.: +91 22 4302 5555
Fax no.: +91 22 4302 5500
Website: www.sbicaptrustee.com
The Bank of New York Mellon
240 Greenwich Street
New York - 10286, 
United States
Tel. no.: +1 212 495 1784
Website: www.adrbnymellon.com
31st Annual General Meeting (“31ST AGM”)	
Dividend
Day / Date / Time
Friday, 25 July, 2025, 10:00 am
Dividend Amount
`1 per share
Mode
Video Conferencing
Record Date
Friday, 4 July, 2025
E-voting Dates
Monday, 21 July, 2025 (9:00 am) 
to Thursday, 24 July, 2025 (5:00 pm)
Dividend Payment Date
The dividend, if approved, will be paid 
within 30 days from the date of the 
31st AGM
Financial Year
1 April to 31 March
Meeting Calendar
Purpose
Tentative Date
Unaudited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the quarter ending
30 June, 2025
Third week of July, 2025
Unaudited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the quarter / half year ending 
30 September, 2025
Third week of October, 2025
Unaudited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the quarter / nine months ending 
31 December, 2025
Third week of January, 2026
Audited financial results (standalone and consolidated) of the Bank, for the financial year ending 
31 March, 2026
Last week of April, 2026

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
312
Listing on Stock Exchanges
Equity Shares
Details of Stock Exchange
ISIN
Stock Exchange Codes
Reuters Codes
Bloomberg Codes
BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001, Maharashtra
Website: www.bseindia.com
INE238A01034
532215
BSE - AXBK.BO
BSE – AXSB IN
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, Plot no. C/1, G Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai - 400 051, Maharashtra
Website: www.nseindia.com
INE238A01034
AXISBANK
NSE - AXBK.NS
NSE - AXSB IS
The equity shares of the Bank have not been suspended from trading on the said stock exchanges or by any regulatory or 
statutory authority.
Global Depository Receipts (“GDR”) / American Depository Receipts (“ADR”)
Details of Stock Exchange
Stock Exchange Code
ISIN
London Stock Exchange
10 Paternoster Square,
London, EC4M 7LS, United Kingdom
Website: www.londonstockexchange.com
AXB
US05462W1099
1.	
One GDR is represented by five underlying equity shares.
2. 	
Allotments were made in April 2005, May 2005, July 2005 and September 2009. No GDR / ADR issuances in fiscal 2025.
3. 	
Outstanding as on 31 March, 2025: 10,30,78,770
Debt Securities
Description
Details of Stock Exchange
Stock Exchange Code
ISIN
BSE Code
NSE Code
Non-Convertible Debt 
Instruments in the form of 
Tier II and Infrastructure Bonds
BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street,
Mumbai - 400 001, Maharashtra
Website: www.bseindia.com
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, Plot no. C/1, G Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai - 400 051, Maharashtra
Website: www.nseindia.com
959227
AXBK27
INE238A08468
954048
AXBK26
INE238A08393
956607
AXBK27
INE238A08435
952829
AXBK25A
INE238A08377
952965
AXBK25
INE238A08385
955282
AXBK26
INE238A08419
974420
AXBK32
INE238A08484
973667
AXBK31
INE238A08476
958469
AXBKB28
INE238A08450
975476
AXBK34
INE238A08492
975988
AXBK34
INE238A08500

Corporate governance
313
Description
Details of Stock Exchange
Stock Exchange Code
MTN Bonds
London Stock Exchange
10 Paternoster Square,
London, EC4M 7LS, United Kingdom
Website: www.londonstockexchange.com
AXB
Singapore Exchange Limited
Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited
(SGXNet Services Operations)
2 Shenton Way, #02-02, SGX Centre 1,
Singapore - 068804
Website: www.sgx.com
-
India International Exchange (IFSC) Limited
1st Floor, Unit no. 101, The Signature,
Building no. 13B, Road 1C, Zone 1, GIFT SEZ,
GIFT City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat - 382355
Website: www.indiainx.com
-
NSE IFSC Limited
Unit no. 1201, Brigade International Financial Centre,
12th Floor, Block -14, Road 1 C, Zone 1,
GIFT SEZ, GIFT City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat - 382355
Website: https://www.nseindia.com/nse-international-exchange/about
-
Convertible Warrants
As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank has no outstanding warrants pending for conversion.
Listing Fee
The Bank has paid annual listing fees for fiscal 2025 to the stock exchanges.
Depositories
The National Securities Depository Limited (the “NSDL”) and the Central Depository Services (India) Limited (the “CDSL”) 
are the depositories for the equity shares of the Bank. The Bank has paid annual custodian fees for fiscal 2025 to the 
depositories.
Payment of Dividend
In terms of Regulation 12 and Schedule I of the SEBI Listing Regulations, every listed entity is required to mandatorily 
make all payments to members, including dividend, by using any Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) approved electronic mode of 
payment viz., direct credit, real time gross settlement (“RTGS”), national electronic fund transfer (“NEFT”), electronic clearing 
service (“ECS”), national automated clearing house (“NACH”), etc. The Bank would be entitled to use the bank account details 
of the members available with the depository participants to facilitate payment through electronic mode.
All members of the Bank holding equity shares in electronic form are requested to provide details relating to their bank 
account number, including nine-digit MICR code and 11-digit IFSC code, email address and mobile numbers to their 
depository participants.
All members of the Bank holding equity shares in physical form are requested to provide details relating to their bank 
account number, including nine digit MICR code and 11-digit IFSC code, email address and mobile numbers to KFIN at 
Selenium Building, Tower - B, Plot nos. 31 & 32, Financial District, Serilingampally, Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana, by 
quoting their folio number in form ISR-1 and attaching a photocopy of the cheque leaf of the said bank account and a 
self-attested copy of their PAN card.
In case the dividend paid through electronic mode is rejected by the corresponding bank for any reason whatsoever, the 
Bank will issue a demand draft and print the bank account details available with KFIN on the said dividend demand draft to 
avoid fraudulent encashment.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
314
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide its master circular dated 7 May, 2024 has mandated that holders 
of physical securities, whose folio(s) are not updated with any of the KYC details vide., PAN, Choice of Nomination, Contact 
details (Postal Address with PIN and Mobile Number), Bank A/c details and Specimen signature, shall be eligible for any 
payment including dividend, interest or redemption in respect of such folios, only through electronic mode with effect from 
1 April, 2024. In this regard, please refer to SEBI FAQs by accessing the link: https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/faqfiles/
sep-2024/1727418250017.pdf (FAQ nos. 38 & 39). Accordingly, dividend payable to members holding shares in physical 
mode, whose KYC details are not updated shall be withheld by the Bank. Members are therefore advised to update their KYC 
details on priority, if not done already.
Unclaimed Dividend
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 125 read with 124(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (the “IEPF Rules”), the Bank 
is required to transfer the amount of dividend lying unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive financial years from the 
date of its transfer to the unpaid dividend account to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (the “IEPF”). Accordingly, 
unclaimed dividend amounting to `1,18,04,460 in respect of fiscal 2017 was transferred by the Bank to the IEPF on 
25 September, 2024.
The details of the unclaimed dividend as on 31 March, 2025 and the last date for claiming the same prior to its transfer to 
the IEPF are as under:
Fiscal
Unclaimed dividend as 
on 31 March, 2025
(in `)
Percentage to total 
dividend declared
Date of declaration of 
dividend
Last date for claiming dividend 
prior to its transfer to the IEPF
2017-18
No dividend declared
2018-19
17,27,854
0.07
20 July, 2019
25 August, 2026
2019-20
No dividend declared
2020-21
No dividend declared
2021-22
19,99,610
0.07
29 July, 2022
4 September, 2029
2022-23
21,88,461
0.08
28 July, 2023
3 September, 2030
2023-24
29,52,803
0.11
26 July, 2024
1 September, 2031
Total
88,68,728
Members of the Bank are requested to verify details of their unclaimed dividends in respect of fiscal 2019, fiscal 2022, fiscal 
2023 and fiscal 2024 and lodge their claim with KFIN, prior to the date of its transfer to the IEPF. Members may write to 
KFIN at einward.ris@kfintech.com for any assistance, in this regard.
In its endeavour to reduce the quantum of unclaimed dividend, the Bank has sent reminders in the month of August 2024 
and March 2025 to all the members whose dividend was lying in the unclaimed dividend account. These reminders were also 
supported with requisite forms and papers to simplify the claim process and to facilitate a seamless transfer.
Transfer of underlying equity shares to the IEPF
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the Act and the relevant provisions of the IEPF Rules, the equity 
shares of the Bank on which dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive years are liable to be transferred by the 
Bank to the IEPF.
Reminder letters to claim dividend were sent in the month of May 2024 to those members whose dividend and corresponding 
shares were due for transfer to the IEPF in fiscal 2025.
The Bank has till 31 March, 2025, transferred 14,02,191 underlying equity shares to the IEPF.

Corporate governance
315
Guidelines to claim dividends / shares transferred to IEPF
The detailed guidelines for claiming dividends / shares which have been transferred to the IEPF in accordance with the IEPF 
Rules are mentioned in the investor’s FAQs available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-
corner/financial-results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs.
Dematerialisation of Shares
The equity shares of the Bank are traded on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
No. of Folios
No. of Shares
Physical
2,922
26,00,044
Demat
9,68,481
3,09,47,69,022
Total
9,71,403
3,09,73,69,066
During the last three fiscal years, no equity shares of the Bank held in physical form were transferred.
During fiscal 2025, the Bank has undertaken initiatives to encourage its members holding shares in physical form to 
dematerialise their holdings. Letters were sent to such members in the month of August 2024 and March 2025 sensitising 
them on the benefits of dematerialisation.
Unclaimed Suspense Account
New share certificates issued in fiscal 2015 consequent to the sub-division of shares of the Bank having face value of `10/- 
each into five fully paid-up shares of face value of `2/- each, which remained unclaimed in the custody of the RTA were 
transferred to Unclaimed Suspense Account of the Bank.
In terms of Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank had sent three reminders to the 
members whose physical share certificates remained unclaimed requesting them to claim their shares, before transferring 
the said shares to the Unclaimed Suspense Account. The Bank vide these letters also requested the members to update their 
KYC details with the RTA.
Details in accordance with Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations are as follows:
Particulars
No. of Shareholders
No. of Shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying 
at the beginning of the year
174
1,32,005
Number of shareholders who approached the Bank for transfer of shares from suspense 
account during the year
21
15,000
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense account during the 
year**
9
5,500
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying 
at the end of the year
139
1,09,005
**During the year 17,500 shares with respect to 26 shareholders were transferred to IEPF in accordance with the IEPF Rules.
Note: Voting rights on these shares were/will remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.   

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
316
Distribution of Shareholding
The distribution of shareholding of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025, is detailed as under:
Sr. 
No.
Category
Electronic Form
Physical Form
Total
No. of 
Holders
No. of Shares
% to 
Equity
No. of 
Holders
No. of 
Shares
% to 
Equity
No. of 
Holders
No. of Shares
% to 
Equity
1.
1 - 5000
962,922
98,956,504
3.19
2,906
2,476,844
0.08
965,828
101,433,348
3.27
2.
5001 - 10000
1,949
13,927,067
0.45
14
99,200
0
1,963
14,026,267
0.45
3.
10001 - 20000
1,020
14,555,349
0.47
2
24,000
0
1,022
14,579,349
0.47
4.
20001 - 30000
378
9,205,515
0.3
-
-
-
378
9,205,515
0.3
5.
30001 - 40000
228
7,943,082
0.26
-
-
-
228
7,943,082
0.26
6.
40001 - 50000
141
6,328,389
0.2
-
-
-
141
6,328,389
0.2
7.
50001 - 100000
391
28,735,669
0.93
-
-
-
391
28,735,669
0.93
8.
100001 and above
1,452
2,915,117,447
94.12
-
-
-
1,452
2,915,117,447
94.12
Total
968,481
3,094,769,022
99.92
2,922
2,600,044
0.08
971,403
3,097,369,066
100
Shareholding Pattern
Category wise shareholding pattern of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 is detailed as under:
Legends
Category
No. of Shares
Percentage
Distribution of Shareholding
(A)	 Promoters
Life Insurance Corporation of India
244,860,645
7.91
Total Promoter Holding (A)
244,860,645
7.91
(B)	 Domestic Shareholders
Mutual Funds
958,904,664
30.96
Insurance
156,449,254
5.05
Banks / AIFs / NBFCs / Pension Funds
108,852,661
3.51
Indian Residents
163,059,964
5.26
Body Corporates
32,167,860
1.04
Others
4,645,085
0.15
Total Domestic Holding (B)
1,424,079,488
45.97
(C)	 Foreign Shareholders
FPIs / FIIs
1,315,838,601
42.48
GDRs
103,078,770
3.33
NRIs / Foreign Nationals / Foreign 
Companies
9,511,562
0.31
Total Foreign Holding (C)
1,428,428,933
46.12
Total
3,097,369,066
100.00
7.91
3.33 0.31
42.48
30.96
5.05
3.51
5.26
1.04
0.15

Corporate governance
317
Shareholders holding more than 1% equity share capital of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025, are as under:
Sr.
No.
Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares
Percentage
1.
Life Insurance Corporation of India
244,860,645
7.91
2.
ICICI through its various mutual fund schemes
180,378,395
5.82
3.
HDFC through its various mutual fund schemes
166,867,022
5.39
4.
SBI through its various mutual fund schemes
154,545,947
4.99
5.
The Bank of New York Mellon, DR (GDRs)
103,078,770
3.33
6.
Nippon through its various mutual fund schemes
87,756,844
2.83
7.
NPS Trust through its various schemes
69,754,483
2.25
8.
Dodge and Cox through its various mutual fund schemes
68,557,850
2.21
9.
Government of Singapore
65,175,984
2.10
10.
Government Pension Fund Global
64,507,242
2.08
11.
Mirae Asset through its various mutual fund schemes
55,987,557
1.81
12.
UTI through its various mutual fund schemes
50,849,579
1.64
13.
Kotak through its various mutual fund schemes
47,133,082
1.52
14.
Aditya Birla through its various mutual fund schemes
37,394,289
1.21
15.
SBI Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
 34,932,841 
1.13
16.
Vanguard through its various mutual fund schemes
32,393,619
1.05
1. The above shareholding is on the basis of PAN.
2. Sr. Nos. 2 to 11 represent the top 10 public shareholders of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025.
Credit Ratings
The details of the credit ratings obtained by the Bank in respect of all debt instruments issued by it and outstanding as on 
31 March, 2025 along with outlook are as under:
Sr. 
No.
Type of 
Security
ICRA
CARE Ratings
CRISIL
India Ratings
Date of 
Rating
Credit 
Rating
Outlook
Rating 
Action
Date of 
Rating
Credit 
Rating
Outlook
Rating 
Action
Date of 
Rating
Credit
Outlook
Rating 
Action
Date of 
Rating
Credit Outlook
Rating 
Action
1.
Certificate of 
Deposits
19-Nov-24
ICRA 
A1+
-
Reaffirmed
-
-
-
-
18-Nov-24
CRISIL 
A1+
-
Reaffirmed
-
-
-
-
2.
Infrastructure 
bond
19-Nov-24
ICRA 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
18-Oct-24
CARE 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
18-Nov-24
CRISIL 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
01-Oct-24 IND 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
3.
Tier II
(Basel III)
19-Nov-24
ICRA 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
18-Oct-24
CARE 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
18-Nov-24
CRISIL 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
01-Oct-24 IND 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
4.
Tier I
(Basel III)
19-Nov-24
ICRA 
AA+
Stable
Reaffirmed 
& Assigned
-
-
-
-
18-Nov-24
CRISIL 
AA+
Stable
Reaffirmed 
& Assigned
01-Oct-24 IND 
AA+
Stable
Reaffirmed
5.
Fixed Deposit
19-Nov-24
ICRA 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
01-Oct-24 IND 
AAA
Stable
Reaffirmed
Ratings for MTN (senior unsecured) securities have been reaffirmed at BB+ with Stable outlook by Fitch Ratings, Baa3 with 
Stable outlook by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- with Positive outlook by S&P Global Ratings.
Investor Services
KFIN has been entrusted with the task of administering all aspects relating to investor services for and on behalf of the Bank. 
KFIN has appropriate systems to ensure that requisite service is provided to the investors of the Bank in accordance with 
applicable corporate and securities laws as per the adopted service standards.
Investors are requested to write to the Bank or to KFIN for availing any services or may send their correspondence / 
complaints to shareholders@axisbank.com or einward.ris@kfintech.com.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
318
Members can contact KFIN for redressal of queries by visiting https://kprism.kfintech.com for query registration through free 
identity registration process. Members can submit their queries on the above website which would generate a registration 
number. For accessing the status / response to the query submitted, the grievance registration number can be used at the 
option ‘click here to track your grievance’ after 24 hours.
Investor Correspondence / Complaints
The details of the investor complaints received and redressed by the Bank during fiscal 2025 are as under:
Received from statutory / regulatory authorities
No. of complaints 
received in
fiscal 2025
No. of complaints 
unresolved as on
31 March 2025
SEBI SCORES
21
0
Stock exchanges
4
0
NSDL / CDSL
1
0
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”)
0
0
RBI
0
0
Total no. of complaints received
26
0
Total no. of complaints redressed
26
0
There were no investor complaints pending as on 1 April, 2025. During fiscal 2025, the Bank received 26 complaints from 
the members. The Bank had attended to all the complaints and no complaints were pending or remained unresolved to the 
satisfaction of the members as on 31 March, 2025.
During fiscal 2025, the Bank received 3,255 investor correspondence(s) as provided herein below, from its investors, capital 
market intermediaries, by post, web-based query redressal system of KFIN and through emails, inter alia, in respect of the 
services relating to the securities issued by the Bank:
Nature of Correspondences
Pending as on
1 April, 2024
Received
Replied
Pending as on
31 March, 2025
Non-receipt and revalidation of dividend warrants
0
1,458
1,455
3
Change in address
0
13
13
0
Incorporation of ECS details
0
24
24
0
Change / correction in name
0
348
348
0
Change in bank mandate
0
12
12
0
Registration of nominee
0
77
77
0
Others
0
1,323
1,318
5
Total
0
3,255
3,247
8
The statement highlighting the status of the investor correspondence(s) / complaint(s) received and redressed by the 
Bank during fiscal 2025 was tabled at the meetings of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee / Board of Directors 
(the “Board”) of the Bank for their review and noting.
Process for requests related to physical shares
Pursuant to Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, from time to time, the transfer, transmission and 
transposition of securities of listed companies held in physical form shall be effected only in demat mode. Further, SEBI 
vide its circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 25 January, 2022, has made it mandatory for 
listed companies to issue shares only in demat form while processing investor service requests viz., issue of duplicate 
securities certificate, claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account, renewal / exchange of securities certificate, endorsement, 
sub-division / splitting of securities certificate, consolidation of securities certificates / folios, transmission and 
transposition. RTAs are now required to issue a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ within 30 days of receipt of such request after 
removing objections, if any, in lieu of the share certificate while processing any of the aforesaid investor service requests. 
The ‘Letter of Confirmation’ shall be valid for a period of 120 days from the date of its issuance, within which the securities 
holder / claimant shall make a request to the Depository Participant for dematerialising the said securities.

Corporate governance
319
Accordingly, members are advised to request for such services by submitting a duly filled and signed form ISR-4 or ISR-5, 
as applicable, the format of which is available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
financial-results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs.
In cases where the securities holder / claimant fails to submit the demat request to the depository participant within the 
period of 120 days from the date of issuance of the Letter of Confirmation from RTA / listed companies, the said securities 
shall be credited to ‘Suspense Escrow Demat Account’. Securities which have been moved to ‘Suspense Escrow Demat 
Account’ may be claimed by the security holder / claimant by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR- 4 or ISR-5.
In view of the above and also to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares, the Bank has in August 2024 and
March 2025 sent letters to members holding shares in physical form encouraging them to dematerialise their holding.
Shareholder Handbook / Shareholder Services
Members are requested to refer to the investor’s handbook available on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/
shareholders-corner/financial-results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs for rights of members, procedures 
related to transfer, dematerialisation, transmission, nomination in respect of shareholding, change of address, unclaimed / 
unpaid dividend, refund from IEPF, updation of KYC details, etc.
Dispute Resolution
Arbitration Mechanism:
As per SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/76 dated 30 May, 2022, in case of claims or disputes 
arising between the shareholders / investors of the Bank and the RTAs, the RTAs shall be subjected to the stock exchange 
arbitration mechanism. The arbitration mechanism shall be initiated post exhausting all actions for resolution of complaints 
including those received through SCORES portal.
Online Dispute Resolution:
In terms of SEBI circular nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/131 dated 31 July, 2023, SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_
IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated 4 August, 2023, SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/191 dated 20 December, 2023, 
investors can register their complaint in case of disputes arising in the Indian Securities Market against the Bank / RTA, on 
https://smartodr.in/login by harnessing online conciliation and / or online arbitration. The aforesaid circulars are available 
on the website of the Bank. Members may access the same at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/financial-
results-and-other-information/public-notices/investor-faqs.
Nomination Facility
Section 72 of the Act provides that every holder of securities of a Company may at any time nominate in the prescribed 
manner any person in whom the securities shall vest, in the event of death. Where the securities are held by more than one 
person jointly, the joint holders may together nominate any person in whom all the rights in the securities shall vest, in the 
event of death of all the joint holders.
In view of the above, the members are encouraged to avail of the nomination facility. The relevant nomination form can be 
downloaded from the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/financial-results-and-other-
information/public-notices/investor-faqs or members may write to the Bank or to KFIN for the same.
Please note that the nomination shall automatically be rescinded on transfer / transmission / dematerialisation of the 
securities.
Green Initiatives
In terms of Rule 18 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, a company may send a copy of the 
notice through electronic mode to those members who have registered their email address(es) either with their depository 
participants (“DP”) or with the Company.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
320
Further, as per Regulation 36 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the listed entity is required to send soft copies of its annual 
report to all those members who have registered their email address(es) for this purpose.
In case of members whose email address has changed and is not updated with the Bank / RTA, the aforesaid documents 
would be sent to the email address available in the records of the Bank / RTA and the same shall be deemed to have been 
delivered in compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. Therefore, members are requested 
to register their email address or any change thereof with their DP (in case of shares held in electronic form) or with KFIN (in 
case of shares held in physical form) at the earliest.
Further, in terms of MCA Circular no. 09/2024 dated 19 September, 2024 and SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated 3 October, 2024, the Integrated Annual Report containing the Standalone and Consolidated 
Financial Statements for fiscal 2025, the Board’s Report, the Auditors’ Report and other documents required to be attached 
thereto along with the notice convening the 31st AGM is being sent only through electronic mode to those members who 
have registered their email address(es) with the Bank / KFIN or their respective DPs, as the case may be. Accordingly, no 
physical copy of the notice of the 31st AGM and the Integrated Annual Report for fiscal 2025 is being sent to members who 
have not registered their email address(es) with the Bank / RTA. The Bank is sending, at the latest available postal address, a 
letter providing the web-link, including the exact path, where complete details of the Integrated Annual Report is available 
to those shareholder(s) who have not registered their email address.
Any member who still wishes to receive a physical copy of the Integrated Annual Report is requested to write to 
einward.ris@ kfintech.com or shareholders@axisbank.com quoting his / her DP ID and Client ID / folio number as the case 
may be, to enable the Bank to provide physical copy of the said documents free of cost. Please note that the said documents 
are also uploaded on the Bank’s website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information.
Means of Communication
Quarterly / Annual Results: The unaudited / audited financial results of the Bank are reviewed and approved by the Board 
and disclosed to the stock exchanges in accordance with Regulation 30 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The results of the 
Bank are simultaneously also made available on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
financial-results-and-other-information and published in Business Standard, Mint (all editions) and Sandesh (Ahmedabad 
edition), the day after they are disclosed to the stock exchanges.
Investor Presentations: Detailed presentations are published for the Bank’s quarterly, half-yearly as well as annual financial 
results. The Bank also arranges post quarterly earnings conference calls for market participants, which is the key platform 
to share the Bank’s view on various aspects related to the sector, the Bank and its financials. These presentations, audio 
recordings, video recordings (if any), and transcripts of the earnings conference call are available on the website of the Bank 
at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/financial-results-and-other-information/quarterly-results and are also 
intimated to the stock exchanges within the prescribed timelines.
The Bank also holds regular interactions (meetings, roadshows, etc.) with its institutional shareholders and market participants 
based on publicly available information. The Bank provides advance intimation about the quarterly earnings conference 
calls and group meetings to the stock exchanges. The Bank also provides the schedule of investors / analysts with whom 
interaction will take place along with the link of the presentation referred during 
the group meetings to the stock exchanges in accordance with the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. During fiscal 2025 the Bank participated in 44 group meetings and 
interacted with 527 investors and analysts at these group meetings.
Official Press Releases: Official press releases are available on the website of the 
Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/about-us/press-releases.
Compliance Reports, Corporate Announcements, Material Information and 
Updates: The Bank disseminates requisite corporate announcements under the 
SEBI Listing Regulations including the quarterly shareholding pattern, corporate 
governance report etc., electronically through designated portals of the stock 
exchanges and on its website at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/
corporate-governance.
7
13
16
8
Quarter 1
Quarter 2
Quarter 3
Quarter 4
Analysts / Institutional Investors 
meets during ﬁscal 2025
Total 44

Corporate governance
321
Integrated Annual Report: The Integrated Annual Report of the Bank containing, inter alia, the Annual Audited Financial 
Statements (standalone and consolidated), the Board’s Report, Auditors’ Report, Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report and other important information is circulated to the members and others entitled thereto and is also made available 
on the website of the Bank at https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/annual-reports.
Letters / Emails to Investors: The Bank addressed various investor-centric letters / emails / SMS(es) to its members during 
the year. This includes reminders for claiming unclaimed / unpaid dividend from the Bank, dematerialisation of shares, 
updation of email address(es), PAN and bank account details.
Designated exclusive email address: The Bank has designated the following email address exclusively for investor servicing: 
shareholders@axisbank.com.
Shareholders’ Feedback Survey: During fiscal 2025, the Bank sought feedback from members on various matters relating 
to investor services and annual report. The Bank has also initiated sending shareholder satisfaction survey link on a monthly 
basis to all those shareholders of the Bank who had interacted with KFIN for resolution of their queries / complaints.
The Bank monitors the response received on the shareholder satisfaction survey and takes necessary steps as required.
Evaluation of RTA Services
With a view to enhance and improve shareholder experience, the Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board of the 
Bank, during the fiscal 2024, formally adopted ‘Guidelines to evaluate the services of Registrar & Transfer Agent of the Bank’. 
These guidelines lay down parameters for annual performance evaluation of the RTA. During fiscal 2025, evaluation was 
carried out in accordance with the said guidelines.
General Meetings
The details of the previous three Annual General Meetings (“AGMs”) and summary of the special resolutions passed therein, 
are as under:
AGM
Day and Date
Time
Location
Special Resolutions
28th
Friday,
29 July, 2022
10.00 
a.m.
Held through 
video 
conferencing 
facility
Resolution no. 4 - Re-appointment of Girish Paranjpe (DIN: 02172725) as an 
Independent Director of the Bank for his second term of four years with effect from 
2 November, 2022 up to 1 November, 2026 (both days inclusive).
Resolution no. 5 - Appointment of Manoj Kohli (DIN: 00162071) as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a period of four years with effect from 17 June, 2022 up to 
16 June, 2026 (both days inclusive).
Resolution no. 6 - Enhancement of borrowing limit of the Bank up to `250,000 
crores under Section 180 (1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Resolution no. 7 - Borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any 
other permitted foreign currency, by issue of debt securities on a private placement 
basis for an amount of up to `35,000 crores during a period of one year from the date 
of passing of this special resolution.
29th
Friday,
28 July, 2023
10.00 
a.m.
Held through 
video 
conferencing 
facility
Resolution no. 4 - Appointment of N. S. Vishwanathan (DIN: 09568559) as 
an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of four years, with effect from 
30 May, 2023 up to 29 May, 2027 (both days inclusive).
Resolution no. 9 – Alteration to the Articles of Association of the Bank to insert a 
new clause in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 dated 2 February, 
2023, for appointment of a director nominated by debenture trustees in the event of 
default as prescribed under Regulation 15(1)(e) of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, within one month from the date of 
receipt of such nomination.
Resolution no. 10 - Borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any 
other permitted foreign currency, by issue of debt securities on a private placement 
basis for an amount of up to `35,000 crores during a period of one year from the date 
of passing of this special resolution.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
322
AGM
Day and Date
Time
Location
Special Resolutions
30th
Friday,
26 July, 2024
10:00 
a.m.
Held through 
video 
conferencing 
facility
Resolution no. 6 – Re-appointment of Meena Ganesh (DIN: 00528252) as an 
Independent Director of the Bank for a period of four years, with effect from 
1 August, 2024 up to 31 July, 2028 (both days inclusive).
Resolution no. 7 – Re-appointment of G. Padmanabhan (DIN: 07130908) as 
an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of four years, with effect from 
28 October, 2024 up to 27 October, 2028 (both days inclusive).
Resolution no. 13 – Borrowing / raising of funds denominated in Indian rupees or any 
other permitted foreign currency, by issue of debt securities on a private placement 
basis for an amount of up to `35,000 crores during a period of one year from the date 
of passing of this special resolution. 
Resolution no. 14 – Raising of funds by issue of equity shares / depository receipts 
and / or any other instruments or securities representing either equity shares and / or 
convertible securities linked to equity shares for an amount of up to `20,000 crores.
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM require passing of resolution through postal ballot. 
Further, during the last three years, no resolutions have been rejected by the shareholders.
Procedure for Postal Ballot
The postal ballot process was conducted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 110 and 108 of the Act read with 
Rules 22 and 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules 2014.
MCA vide its circulars has permitted companies to conduct postal ballots by sending the notice in electronic form. 
Accordingly, physical copies of the notice along with postal ballot form and pre-paid business reply envelopes were not 
sent to the members for the postal ballots conducted during the year. Members were requested to convey their assent 
or dissent through remote e-voting only. Copies of the postal ballot notice were hosted on the website of the Bank, 
websites of the stock exchanges (i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited) at www.bseindia.com and 
www.nseindia.com, respectively, and on the website of our e-voting agency i.e., NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com. An 
advertisement was also published in the newspapers informing about completion of dispatch of the postal ballot notice and 
other details.
Voting rights were reckoned on the paid-up value of the shares registered in the names of the members as on the cut-off 
date.
A Scrutinizer was appointed by the Bank for conducting the postal ballot process in a fair and transparent manner. The 
Scrutinizer submitted his report to the Chairman and the results of the voting were disclosed to the stock exchanges, were 
published on the websites of the Bank and of the e-voting agency, and were also displayed at the registered office.
Details of Special Resolution passed through Postal Ballot during fiscal 2025
Date of 
Postal Ballot 
Notice
Scrutinizer
Date of 
Approval
Link for Postal Ballot 
Notice and Results
Special Resolution 
passed through 
Postal Ballot
No. of 
Votes in 
Favour
No. of 
Votes 
Against
% of 
Votes 
in Favor
% of 
Votes 
Against
4 April 2024
CS KVS 
Subramanyam, 
Practising 
Company Secretary 
(Membership No. 
FCS 5400 and 
Certificate of 
Practice No. 4815)
10 May, 2024
https://www.axisbank.
com/shareholders-
corner/shareholders-
information/postal-ballot
Appointment of Pranam 
Wahi (DIN: 00031914) 
as 
an 
Independent 
Director of the Bank 
for a period of four 
years, with effect from 
15 February, 2024 up to 
14 February, 2028 (both 
days inclusive)
2,49,77,70,037
13,59,608
99.9456
0.0544
Note: The Board at its meeting held on 17 January 2025, proposed a special resolution for the approval of the members vide 
postal ballot with respect to re-appointment of Prof. S. Mahendra Dev (DIN: 06519869) for his second term of four years 
with effect from 14 June, 2025.

Corporate governance
323
Additional information on auditors and directors seeking appointment / re-appointment at the ensuing AGM
The details of secretarial auditor and directors seeking appointment / re-appointment at the ensuing AGM in terms of 
Regulation 36(5) and 36(3) respectively, of the SEBI Listing Regulations is provided in the notice of the ensuing 31st AGM of 
the Bank.
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities
The details with respect to commodity price risk in terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2018/0000000141 
dated 15 November, 2018 is as follows:
1.	
Risk management policy with respect to commodities including through hedging: As the Bank is not exposed to XAU 
(Gold) and XAG (Silver), the Bank does not have a risk management policy for commodity price risk.
2.	
Exposure of the Bank to commodity and commodity risks faced by the Bank during the fiscal year is given below:
	
a)	
Total exposure of the Bank to commodities in INR: Nil as on 31 March, 2025.
	
b)	
Exposure of the Bank to various commodities: Not applicable.
	
c)	
Commodity risks faced by the Bank during the year and how they have been managed: The Bank did not run any 
trading positions in XAU (Gold) or XAG (Silver) and does not have exposure to any other commodity.
Plant Locations
Being a banking company registered under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the provisions relating to disclosure of details 
relating to plant location are not applicable to the Bank.
The Bank operates through a network of branches spread across the length and breadth of the country. As on 31 March, 
2025, the Bank had a network of 5,879 domestic branches and extension counters, 13,941 ATMs and cash recycler machines.
The list of branches is available on the website of the Bank at https://branch.axisbank.com.

Statutory reports
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
324
As per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated 10 May, 2021 on ‘Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting 
by listed entities’, the Bank has published the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for fiscal 2025.
Further, as per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12 July, 2023 on ‘BRSR Core - Framework for Assurance 
and ESG disclosures for Value Chain’, the BRSR Core has been externally assured by SGS India Private Limited (SGS India) for which ‘Reasonable 
Assurance’ was provided.
The Bank’s BRSR for fiscal 2025 along with the Assurance Statement has been hosted on the Bank’s website:
https://www.axisbank.com/shareholders-corner/shareholders-information/business-responsibility-report
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
As at 31 March, 2025

Standalone financial statements
325
Independent Auditor’s Report
To The Members of Axis Bank Limited
Report on the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), which comprise 
the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, the Standalone Profit And Loss Account, and the Standalone Cash 
Flow Statement for the year ended on that date, and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, including a summary 
of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (‘the Standalone Financial Statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone 
Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, as well as the Companies Act, 
2013 (‘the Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘the RBI’), in the manner so required for 
banking companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section 
133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 (‘AS’) and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the State of Affairs of the Bank as at 31 March 2025, and its profit and its Cash Flows for 
the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Bank, in accordance with the Code of 
Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act, and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment were of most significance in our audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the Key Audit Matters:
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
1
Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
As the Bank operates on Core Banking Solution across its branches 
and asset centres, the reliability and security of Information 
Technology (“IT”) systems plays a key role in the business 
operations. Since large volume of transactions are processed daily, 
the IT controls are required to ensure that applications process 
data as expected and that changes are made in an appropriate 
manner.
IT infrastructure is critical for smooth functioning and accurate 
accounting and financial reporting process.
Due to the pervasive nature and complexity of the IT environment, 
we have ascertained key IT systems used in financial reporting 
process and its related controls as a key audit matter.
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
involved our specialists to understand the IT control environment, 
IT infrastructure and IT systems.
We conducted an assessment and identified key IT systems that 
are critical for accounting and financial reporting process and 
are relevant for our audit and tested their internal controls. In 
particular:
• 	
We obtained an understanding of the Bank’s IT control 
environment and key changes during the audit period that 
may be relevant to the audit;

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
326
Standalone Financial Statement
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
1
Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
•	
We tested the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the Bank’s General IT controls over the 
key IT systems that are critical to accounting and financial 
reporting. This included evaluation of Bank’s controls for user 
access management, program change management, database 
management, network operations, incident management and 
other IT operations performed by the Bank during the period 
of audit;
• 	
We tested key automated and manual business cycle controls 
and logic for system generated reports relevant to the audit; 
and
• 	
We also tested compensating controls and performed 
alternate procedures to assess whether there were any 
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the 
financial statements.
2
Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning on Advances (IRAC) as per the regulatory requirements.
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2025: INR 1,040,811 crore
Provision for Non-Performing Advances as at 31 March 2025: INR 10,272.49 crore
Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(5.3) and Schedule 18(1)- Note 1.4
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on ‘Prudential Norms for Income 
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning pertaining 
to Advances’ (the’ IRAC norms’) and amendments thereto (“RBI 
guidelines”) which prescribes the norms for identification and 
classification of Non-Performing Assets (‘NPAs’) and the minimum 
provision required for such assets.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine the 
identification and provision required against NPAs considering 
various quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
As the identification of and provisioning against NPAs requires 
considerable level of management estimation, application of 
various regulatory requirements and its significance to the overall 
audit due to stakeholder and regulatory focus, we have identified 
this as a key audit matter.
• 	
Our audit approach included testing the design, operating 
effectiveness of internal controls and substantive audit 
procedures in respect of income recognition, asset 
classification and provisioning pertaining to advances. In 
particular:
• 	
We have evaluated and understood the Bank’s internal 
control system in adhering to the RBI guidelines;
• 	
We have analysed and understood key IT systems/ 
applications used and tested the design and implementation 
and operational effectiveness of relevant controls in relation 
to income recognition, asset classification, viz., standard, sub-
standard, doubtful and loss with reference to RBI guidelines 
and provisioning pertaining to advances; and
• 	
We test checked advances to examine the validity and 
accuracy of the recorded amounts, provision for NPAs, and 
compliance with IRAC norms.
• 	
Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of disclosures as 
per RBI guidelines relating to NPAs.
Other Information
5.	
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Bank’s Annual Report but does not include the Standalone Financial Statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Other Information included is expected to be made available to us after the date of this 
auditor’s report.
6.	
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
7.	
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the Standalone Financial Statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated.

Standalone financial statements
327
8.	
When we read the other information, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required 
to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the 
relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements
9.	
The Bank’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act, with 
respect to the preparation of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the State of Affairs, 
Profit and Cash Flows of the Bank in accordance with the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the 
Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India and provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines and issued by 
the RBI from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank 
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection of the appropriate accounting software for 
ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations including those related to retention of audit logs; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
10.	 In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, the Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Management and the Board of Directors either intends to 
liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
11.	 The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
12.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
13.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
13.1.	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
	
13.2.	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
	
13.3.	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management.
	
13.4.	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on 
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone 
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
328
	
13.5.	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
14.	 We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing 
of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
15.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
	
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements for the current year and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
16.	 Attention is drawn to the fact that the Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended 31 March 2024 
were audited by predecessor auditors whose report dated 24 April 2024 expressed an unmodified opinion on those 
Standalone Financial Statements.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
17.	 The Standalone Balance Sheet and the Standalone Profit and Loss account have been drawn up in accordance with 
the provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act and relevant rules 
issued thereunder.
18.	 As required by sub-section (3) of section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, based on our audit we report that:
	
18.1.	 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, 
were necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
	
18.2.	The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice during the course of our audit, have been within the 
powers of the Bank; and
	
18.3.	 Since the key operations of the Bank are automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking 
system, the audit is carried out centrally, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our 
audit are available therein. We have visited 92 branches (including credit units) to examine the records maintained 
at such branches for the purpose of our audit.
19.	 Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
19.1.	 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief 
were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
	
19.2.	 In our opinion, proper books of accounts as required by law have been kept by the Bank, so far as it appears from 
our examination of those books.
	
19.3.	 The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Profit And Loss Account, and the Standalone Cash Flow Statement 
dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
	
19.4.	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with the relevant rules thereunder to the extent they are not inconsistent with 
the accounting policies prescribed by the RBI.
	
19.5.	 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2025 taken on record 
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on 31 March 2025 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.

Standalone financial statements
329
	
19.6.	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements 
of the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ‘Annexure A’.
	
19.7.	 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of 
Section 197(16) of the Act, as amended; the Bank is a Banking Company as defined under Banking Regulation Act, 
1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under Section 197 of the Act, do not apply.
20.	 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
	
20.1.	 The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its Standalone Financial 
Statements – Refer Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities to the Standalone Financial Statements;
	
20.2.	 The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material 
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Schedule 5 and 12 read 
with Note No. 2.14 of Schedule 18 to the Standalone Financial Statements;
	
20.3.	 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Bank.
	
20.4.	 The Management has represented, to best of their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (‘Ultimate 
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
20.5.	 The Management has represented, to best of their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been received by 
the Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate 
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
20.6.	 Based on such audit procedures, that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representation under para 20.4 and 20.5 
contain any material misstatement.
	
20.7.	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared and / or paid 
during the year by the Bank is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
	
20.8.	 Based on our examination which included test checks, the Bank has used an accounting software for maintaining 
its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
	
	
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved by the Bank as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP	
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672	
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
	
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani	
Gautam Shah
Partner	
Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577	
ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDU8496	
UDIN: 25117348BMOBBU3174
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025	
Date: 24 April 2025

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
330
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’).
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements of Axis Bank 
Limited (‘the Bank’) as at 31 March 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Bank for the year ended on that date.
2.	
In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to the 
Standalone Financial Statements and such internal financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2025, 
based on the internal controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘the Guidance Note’).
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
3.	
The Bank’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of 
its business, including adherence to the Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s responsibility
4.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone 
Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing (‘SA’), prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements. Those SAs and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with the ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements were established 
and maintained and whether such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
7.	
A bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial 
Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A bank’s internal 
financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements include those policies and procedures that
Annexure ‘A’ to the Independent Auditors’ report on the Standalone Financial 
Statements of Axis Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2025

Standalone financial statements
331
	
(1) 	 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the Bank;
	
(2) 	 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of Management and Directors 
of the Bank; and
	
(3) 	 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the Bank’s assets that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
8.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to 
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with 
reference to the Standalone Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP	
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672	
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
	
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani	
Gautam Shah
Partner	
Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577	
ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDU8496	
UDIN: 25117348BMOBBU3174
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025	
Date: 24 April 2025

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
332
Standalone Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
(` in Thousands)
Schedule 
No.
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
Capital and Liabilities
Capital
1
 6,194,738
 6,173,141
Employees' Stock Options Outstanding
1A
 11,081,826
 8,265,768
Reserves & Surplus
2
 1,779,974,715
 1,496,176,849
Deposits
3
 11,729,520,224
 10,686,413,920
Borrowings
4
 1,841,465,165
 1,968,117,504
Other Liabilities and Provisions
5
 731,062,125
 606,938,824
Total capital and liabilities
 16,099,298,793
 14,772,086,006
Assets
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
 736,384,369
 860,774,849
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
7
 260,936,555
 283,769,025
Investments
8
 3,961,417,941
 3,315,272,496
Advances
9
 10,408,113,203
 9,650,683,843
Fixed Assets
10
 62,916,985
 56,845,750
Other Assets
11
 669,529,740
 604,740,043
Total Assets
 16,099,298,793
 14,772,086,006
Contingent Liabilities
12
28,756,480,920
19,088,924,573
Bills for Collection
 769,311,985
 736,251,008
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Standalone financial statements
333
Standalone Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in Thousands)
Schedule No.
Year ended 
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
I
Income
Interest earned
13 
 1,226,770,401
 1,093,686,327
Other income
14
 252,570,562
 224,419,552
Total Income
 1,479,340,963
 1,318,105,879
II
Expenditure
Interest expended
15 
 683,292,212
594,741,459
Operating expenses
16 
 374,999,428
 352,132,840
Provisions and contingencies
18 (1.14)(e)
 157,314,504
 122,617,248
Total Expenditure
 1,215,606,144
 1,069,491,547
III
Net Profit For The Year (I - II)
 263,734,819
 248,614,332
Balance In Profit & Loss Account Brought Forward
 602,540,556
 441,449,302
IV
Amount Available For Appropriation/Transfers
 866,275,375
 690,063,634
V
Appropriations/Transfers:
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 65,933,705
 62,153,583
Transfer to Capital Reserve
18 (1.1)(b)(iii)
 2,143,457
 1,395,512
Transfer to Special Reserve
18 (1.1)(b)(iv)
 10,247,300
 9,681,300
Transfer to Investment Reserve
18 (1.1)(b)(v)
 -
 2,422,869
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve
18 (1.1)(b)(vii)
 2,480,000
 8,790,000
Dividend paid during the year
18 (2.3)
 3,090,898
 3,079,814
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
 782,380,015
 602,540,556
Total
 866,275,375
 690,063,634
VI
Earnings Per Equity Share (Face Value `2/- Per Share)
18 (2.1)
Basic (In `)
85.28
 80.67
Diluted (In `)
84.77
 80.10
Significant Accounting Policies And Notes To Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
334
Standalone Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in Thousands)
Year ended
31-03-2025
Year ended
31-03-2024
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Net profit before taxes
343,465,780
330,600,676
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation on fixed assets, intangibles and goodwill
16,991,363
13,337,492
Mark-to-Market (gain)/loss on investments
(7,005,061)
(4,313,367)
Amortisation of premium/discount on investments
6,516,018
8,941,824
Provision for Non Performing Assets (including bad debts)/Restructured assets
113,552,817
64,528,147
Provision on standard assets and other contingencies
2,123,792
3,828,497
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)
94,480
37,163
Dividend from Subsidiaries
(245,813)
(413,788)
Employee stock options/units expense
4,239,758
4,543,315
(i)
479,733,134
421,089,959
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/Decrease in investments
(128,697,328)
(363,503,427)
(Increase)/Decrease in advances
(873,215,213)
(1,263,610,900)
Increase /(Decrease) in deposits
1,043,106,304
1,216,961,816
(Increase)/Decrease in other assets
(63,156,749)
105,546,634
Increase/(Decrease) in other liabilities & provisions
111,223,567
14,623,700
(ii)
89,260,581
(289,982,177)
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
(iii)
(74,871,691)
(66,500,956)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii)
(A)
494,122,024
64,606,826
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets
(23,281,607)
(22,945,641)
Purchase consideration for acquistion of Citibank India consumer business
-
(3,298,509)
(Increase)/Decrease in Held to Maturity investments
(471,701,030)
(63,819,720)
Increase in investment in Subsidiaries/Associate
(28,755,602)
(3,008,741)
Decrease in investment in Subsidiaries
3,292,773
-
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
112,141
79,138
Dividend from Subsidiaries
245,813
413,788
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities
(B)
(520,087,512)
(92,579,685)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments
-
-
Repayment of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments
(8,264,500)
-
Increase/(Decrease) in borrowings (other than subordinated debt, Additional Tier I 
instruments (net))
(118,387,839)
105,117,119
Proceeds from issue of share capital
21,597
19,437
Proceeds from share premium (net of share issue expenses)
6,837,089
5,552,700
Payment of dividend
(3,090,898)
(3,079,814)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities
(C)
(122,884,551)
107,609,442

Standalone financial statements
335
(` in Thousands)
Year ended
31-03-2025
Year ended
31-03-2024
Effect of exchange fluctuation translation reserve
(D)
1,627,089
799,219
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A)+(B)+(C)+(D)
(147,222,950)
80,435,802
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
1,144,543,874
1,064,108,072
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
997,320,924
1,144,543,874
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement:
1.	
Cash and cash equivalents includes the following
	
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India (Refer Schedule 6)
736,384,369
860,774,849
	
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice (Refer Schedule 7)
260,936,555
283,769,025
	
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
997,320,924
1,144,543,874
2. 	 Amount of Corporate Social Responsibility related expenses spent during the year in 
cash `286.92 crores (previous year `217.42 crores)
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
336
Schedules forming part of the Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
Schedule 1 - Capital
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
Authorised Capital
4,250,000,000 (Previous year - 4,250,000,000) Equity Shares of `2/- each
 8,500,000
 8,500,000
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Capital
3,097,369,066 (Previous year - 3,086,570,375) Equity Shares of `2/- each fully paid-up
 6,194,738
 6,173,141
Schedule 1A - Employees’ Stock Options Outstanding
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Opening Balance
 8,265,768
 4,234,118
Additions during the year1
 4,239,659
 4,543,315
Deductions during the year2
 (1,423,601)
 (511,665)
Closing Balance
 11,081,826
 8,265,768
1.	
Represents cost of employee stock options/units recognised in P&L during the year of `365.79 crores (previous year `400.70 crores) and cost 
of employee stock options/units of `58.18 crores (previous year `53.63 crores) recovered from group entities
2. 	
Represents amount transferred to Share Premium on account of exercise of employee stock options/units and to General Reserve on lapses 
of employee stock options
Schedule 2 - Reserves And Surplus
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance
 266,657,012
 204,503,429
Additions during the year
 65,933,705
 62,153,583
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 332,590,717
 266,657,012
II.
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
 39,295,827
 37,900,315
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(iii)]
 2,143,457
 1,395,512
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 41,439,284
 39,295,827
III.
Share Premium Account
Opening Balance
 524,974,613
 518,932,238
Additions during the year
 8,181,000
 6,042,375
Less: Share issue expenses
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 533,155,613
 524,974,613
IV.
Revenue And Other Reserves
(A)
Special Reserve
Opening Balance
 24,183,200
 14,501,900
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(iv)]
 10,247,300
 9,681,300
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 34,430,500
 24,183,200

Standalone financial statements
337
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
(B)
Investment Reserve Account
Opening Balance
 2,422,869
 -
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(v)]
 -
 2,422,869
Deductions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(v)]
 2,422,869
 -
Closing Balance
 -
 2,422,869
(C)
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 3,581,141
 3,559,151
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(vi)]
 14,681,276
 21,990
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 18,262,417
 3,581,141
(D)
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve [Refer Schedule 17 (5.7)]
Opening Balance
 5,911,631
 5,112,412
Additions during the year
 1,627,089
 799,219
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 7,538,720
 5,911,631
(E)
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening Balance
 26,610,000
 17,820,000
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(vii)]
 2,480,000
 8,790,000
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 29,090,000
 26,610,000
(F)
Available For Sale (AFS) Reserve
Opening Balance
 -
 -
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(viii)]
 1,103,859
 -
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 1,103,859
 -
(G)
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening Balance
 -
 -
Additions during the year [Refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(b)(ix)]
 (16,410)
 -
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 (16,410)
 -
V.
Balance In Profit & Loss Account
 782,380,015
 602,540,556
Total
 1,779,974,715
 1,496,176,849
Schedule 3 - Deposits
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
A.
I.
Demand Deposits
(I) From banks
41,841,735
46,953,146
(Ii) From others
1,626,145,104
1,525,727,040
II.
Savings Bank Deposits
3,113,893,251
3,021,325,802
III.
Term Deposits
(I) 	
From banks
458,515,937
436,983,633
(Ii) 	 From others
6,489,124,197
5,655,424,299
Total (I, II And III)1
11,729,520,224
10,686,413,920
B.
I.
Deposits of branches in India
11,429,290,806
10,536,778,632
II.
Deposits of branches outside India
300,229,418
149,635,288
Total (I And Ii)1
11,729,520,224
10,686,413,920
1 Includes deposits under lien amounting to `102,032.84 crores (previous year `86,754.13 crores)

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
338
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Borrowings in India
(i) 	
Reserve Bank of India
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	 Other banks1
 7,351,709 
 200,000 
(iii) 	 Other institutions & agencies2
 1,491,036,832 
 1,607,141,632 
II.
Borrowings outside India3
 343,076,624 
 360,775,872 
Total
 1,841,465,165 
 1,968,117,504 
Secured borrowings included in I & II above
 5,251,709 
-
1.	
Borrowings from other banks include Subordinated Debt of `15.00 crores (previous year `15.00 crores) in the nature of Non-Convertible 
Debentures [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(a)]
2. 	
Borrowings from other institutions & agencies include Subordinated Debt of `22,715.00 crores (previous year `23,565.00 crores) in the 
nature of Non-Convertible Debentures [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(a)]
3. 	
Borrowings outside india include Additional Tier I Bonds in the nature of Perpetual Debt amounting to $600 million (`5,128.50 crores); 
previous year $600 million (`5,004.30 crores) [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.1)(a)]
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities And Provisions
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Bills payable
 61,937,960
 67,138,902
II.
Inter-office adjustments (net)
 -
 -
III.
Interest accrued
 33,198,444
 32,427,824
IV.
General provision against standard assets
 50,218,680
 49,490,111
V.
MTM loss on forex & derivative contracts [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(k)]
 199,285,425
 128,063,650
VI.
Provision for tax (net)
 10,779,912
 -
VII.
Others (including provisions) [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(k) and 18 (2.10)(c)]
 375,641,704
 329,818,337
Total
 731,062,125
 606,938,824
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 80,739,346
 96,348,066
II.
Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(i)	
in Current Account
 446,235,023
 481,936,783
(ii)	
in Other Accounts (includes reverse repo under Liquidity Adjustment Facility)
 209,410,000
 282,490,000
Total
 736,384,369
 860,774,849
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I
In India
(i) 	
Balance with Banks
	
(a)	
in Current Accounts
 897,301
 6,972,993
	
(b) 	 in Other Deposit Accounts
 1,075,931
 13,425,306
(ii)	
Money at Call and Short Notice
	
(a)	
With banks
 -
 1,000,000
	
(b)	
With other institutions
 45,043,141
 61,497,707
Total (i and ii)
 47,016,373
 82,896,006

Standalone financial statements
339
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
II.
Outside India
(i) 	
in Current Accounts
 45,312,197
 37,572,764
(ii) 	 in Other Deposit Accounts
 119,545,335
 93,213,428
(iii) 	 Money at Call & Short Notice
 49,062,650
 70,086,827
Total (i, ii and iii)
 213,920,182
 200,873,019
GRAND TOTAL (I+II)
 260,936,555
 283,769,025
Schedule 8 - Investments
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Investments in India in -
(i)	
Government Securities1
 2,926,402,418
 2,383,945,619
(ii) 	 Other approved securities
 -
 -
(iii) 	 Shares
 25,697,393
 11,315,200
(iv) 	 Debentures and Bonds
 729,593,786
 738,537,054
(v) 	 Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associates
 64,926,913
 34,971,311
(vi) 	 Others
[include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds, 
Venture Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts, Pass 
Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP)]
 56,825,987
 46,532,500
Total Investments in India
 3,803,446,497
 3,215,301,684
II.
Investments outside India in -
(i) 	
Government Securities (including local authorities)
 154,352,666
 94,218,603
(ii) 	 Subsidiaries /Joint Ventures abroad
 30,209
 3,322,982
(iii) 	 Others (include Equity Shares and Bonds)
 3,588,569
 2,429,227
Total Investments outside India
 157,971,444
 99,970,812
GRAND TOTAL (I+II)
 3,961,417,941 
 3,315,272,496 
1. Includes securities of face value `1,70,046.36 crores (previous year `1,52,280.19 crores) pledged for availment of fund transfer facility, clearing 
facility repo contracts and margin requirements 
Schedule 9 - Advances
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
A.
(i)
Bills purchased and discounted
 168,182,349
 164,381,999
(ii)
Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand1
 3,235,795,300
 2,735,199,385
(iii)
Term loans
 7,004,135,554
 6,751,102,459
Total (i, ii and iii)
 10,408,113,203
 9,650,683,843
B.
(i)
Secured by tangible assets2
 7,563,191,860
 6,706,680,158
(ii)
Covered by Bank/Government Guarantees3
 18,317,573
 41,725,702
(iii)
Unsecured
 2,826,603,770
 2,902,277,983
Total (i, ii and iii)
 10,408,113,203
 9,650,683,843
C.
I.
Advances in India
(i) 	
Priority Sector
 3,845,589,259
 3,690,701,102
(ii) 	 Public Sector
 120,805,783
 171,329,445
(iii) 	 Banks
 157,444,059
 156,461,188
(iv)	 Others
 5,987,166,756
 5,346,157,277
Total (i, ii, iii and iv)
 10,111,005,857
 9,364,649,012
II.
Advances Outside India
(i) 	
Due from banks
 3,376,263
 2,418,745
(ii) 	 Due from others -

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
340
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
 	
(a) 	 Bills purchased and discounted
 64,067,482
 62,953,571
 	
(b) 	 Syndicated loans
 -
 -
 	
(c)	
Others
 229,663,601
 220,662,515
Total (i and ii)
 297,107,346
 286,034,831
Grand Total (CI+CII)
 10,408,113,203
 9,650,683,843
1.	
Net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) `20,192.94 crores (previous year `19,999.61 crores), includes lending 
under IBPC `1,350.00 crores (previous year NIL)
2. 	
Includes advances against Book Debts
3. 	
Includes advances against L/Cs issued by other banks
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Premises
Gross Block
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year
 20,221,464
 18,731,464
Additions during the year
 -
 1,490,000
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Total
 20,221,464
 20,221,464
Depreciation
As on 31 March of the preceding year
 3,042,034
 2,760,128
Charge for the year
 281,906
 281,906
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Depreciation to date
 3,323,940
 3,042,034
Net Block
 16,897,524
 17,179,430
II.
Other fixed assets (including furniture & fixtures and intangibles)
Gross Block
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year
 237,839,446
 220,966,581
Additions/(Deletions) on account of acquisition of Citibank India Consumer Business
 -
 (166,968)
Additions during the year1
 24,693,117
 20,563,645
Deductions during the year
 (6,611,205)
 (3,523,812)
Total
 255,921,358
 237,839,446
Depreciation
As on 31 March of the preceding year
 200,596,581
 190,963,890
Charge for the year
 16,709,457
 13,055,586
Deductions during the year
 (6,392,196)
 (3,422,895)
Depreciation to date
 210,913,842
 200,596,581
Net Block
 45,007,516
 37,242,865
III.
Capital Work-In-Progress (including capital advances)
 1,011,945
 2,423,455
Grand Total (I+II+III)
 62,916,985
 56,845,750
1.	
includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation

Standalone financial statements
341
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Inter-office adjustments (net)
 -
 -
II.
Interest Accrued
 139,696,834
 114,374,576
III.
Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net of provisions)
 11,053,461
 781,015
IV.
Stationery and stamps
 34,647
 27,595
V.
Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1
 -
 -
VI.
MTM gain on forex & derivative contracts
 204,964,200
 124,300,727
VII.
Others2,3
 313,780,598
 365,256,130
Total
 669,529,740
 604,740,043
1.	
Represents balance net of provision of `1,855.85 crores (previous year `1,855.85 crores) on Land held as non-banking asset
2. 	
Includes deferred tax assets of `4,441.01 crores (previous year `5,312.30 crores) [Refer Schedule 18 (2.8)]
3. 	
Includes Priority Sector Shortfall Deposits of `14,450.47 crores (previous year `21,557.10 crores)
Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
(` in Thousands)
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
I.
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts
 14,772,169
 24,534,308
II.
Liability for partly paid investments
 1,266,410
 -
III.
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1
 12,565,884,623
 8,403,866,787
IV.
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts1
 13,695,933,799
 8,211,897,660
V.
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) 	 In India
 1,216,989,034
 1,068,121,924
(b) 	 Outside India
 194,901,126
 213,150,833
VI.
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
 553,414,271
 590,875,143
VII.
Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
 513,319,488
 576,477,918
Grand Total [Refer Schedule 18 (2.14)]
 28,756,480,920
 19,088,924,573
1.	
Represents notional amount

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
342
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
(` in Thousands)
Year ended 
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Interest/discount on advances/bills
 972,002,671
 871,066,016
II.
Income on investments
 229,283,393
 200,106,203
III.
Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds
 12,362,220
 9,082,703
IV.
Others
 13,122,117
 13,431,405
Total
 1,226,770,401
 1,093,686,327
Schedule 14 - Other Income
(` in Thousands)
Year ended 
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Commission, exchange and brokerage
 205,450,773 
 182,563,994 
II.
Profit/(Loss) on sale of investments (net) 
 12,842,508 
 13,646,670 
III.
Profit/(Loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
 7,005,061 
 4,313,367 
IV.
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1
 (94,480)
 (37,163)
V.
Profit/(Loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net)
 21,627,818 
 19,354,715 
VI.
Income earned by way of dividends etc. from subsidiaries/companies and/or joint venture 
abroad/in India
 245,813 
 413,788 
VII.
Miscellaneous Income [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(m)]
 5,493,069 
 4,164,181 
Total
 252,570,562 
 224,419,552 
1.	
includes provision for diminution in value of fixed assets
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
(` in Thousands)
Year ended 
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Interest on deposits
 539,016,849
 455,417,759
II.
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/Inter-bank borrowings
 20,559,565
 22,802,250
III.
Others
 123,715,798
 116,521,450
Total
 683,292,212
 594,741,459
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
(` in Thousands)
Year ended 
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Payments to and provisions for employees
 121,927,882
 109,331,092
II.
Rent, taxes and lighting
 20,118,560
 17,836,128
III.
Printing and stationery
 3,705,398
 3,538,295
IV.
Advertisement and publicity
 1,219,803
 1,082,833
V.
Depreciation on bank's property
 16,991,363
 13,337,492
VI.
Directors' fees, allowance and expenses
 62,475
 55,893
VII.
Auditors' fees and expenses
 44,292
 43,238
VIII.
Law charges
 2,077,090
 1,886,207
IX.
Postage, telegrams, telephones etc.
 4,291,675
 4,150,413
X.
Repairs and maintenance
 21,678,459
 17,993,257
XI.
Insurance
 17,862,954
 15,985,748
XII.
Other expenditure1
 165,019,477
 166,892,244
TOTAL
 374,999,428
 352,132,840
1.	
Includes commission paid to direct selling agents, charges paid to network partners, cashback expenses, fees paid for purchase of Priority 
Sector Lending Certificates, professional fees, technology expenses, business promotion expenses and miscellaneous expenses
Schedules Forming Part of the Profit & Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025

Standalone financial statements
343
17.	 Significant accounting policies to the Standalone Financial Statements  
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
1.	
Background
	
Axis Bank Limited (‘the Bank’) was incorporated in 1993 and provides a complete suite of banking and financial services 
including retail banking, wholesale banking and treasury operations. The Bank is primarily governed by the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949. As on 31 March 2025, the Bank has overseas branches at Singapore, DIFC - Dubai and an Offshore 
Banking Unit at the International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City), 
Gandhinagar, India.
2.	
Basis of preparation
	
The Standalone Financial Statements (‘financial statements’) have been prepared and presented under the historical 
cost convention on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in 
India, unless otherwise stated by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’), to comply with the statutory requirements prescribed 
under the Third Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, notifications, guidelines and directives 
issued by the RBI from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 
to the extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. Accounting policies applied 
have been consistent with the previous year except otherwise stated.
3.	
Use of estimates
	
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles requires 
the Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including 
contingent liabilities) at the date of the financial statements, revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual 
results could differ from those estimates. The Management believes that the estimates and assumptions used in the 
preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Any revisions, as and when carried out, to the 
accounting estimates are recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
4.	
Changes in accounting policies
	
Effective 1 April, 2024, the Bank has carried out the following changes in its accounting policies:
4.1	 Classification and Valuation of Investments
	
Effective 1 April, 2024 the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on Classification, 
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment Direction, 2023’). 
Accordingly, as prescribed under the transition provisions of the aforesaid framework the Bank has (1) transferred the 
balance in Investment Reserve Account as at 31 March, 2024 of ₹242.29 crores to the general reserve (2) transferred 
an amount of ₹1,217.86 crores (net of tax) to the general reserve, resulting into increase in the net worth of the Bank, 
on account of reversal of balance in provision for depreciation on investments as at 31 March, 2024 and adjustment for 
the difference between the carrying value of its investment portfolio as per the revised framework and the previous 
carrying value as at 31 March, 2024.
	
Further, in compliance with the said RBI Investment Direction 2023, the valuation gains and losses at the period ended 
31 March, 2025, across all performing investments held under Available for Sale (AFS) category are aggregated and the 
net appreciation amounting to ₹110.39 crores (net of tax) has been directly recognised in AFS Reserve. The securities 
held in Fair Value through Profit and Loss (‘FVTPL’) category are fair valued at the period ended 31 March, 2025 and 
the net gain of ₹700.51 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2025, arising on such valuation has been recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account. Figures for the previous year are not comparable to that extent.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
344
5.	
Significant accounting policies
5.1	 Investments
	
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY25
	
Classification
	
In accordance with the RBI Investment Direction, 2023, investments (except investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates) are classified at the time of acquisition as:
	
•	
Held to Maturity (‘HTM’);
	
•	
Available for Sale (‘AFS’) and
	
•	
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL) with Held for Trading (HFT) as a separate investment 
subcategory within FVTPL.
	
Classification of Investments in the Balance sheet
	
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government Securities, 
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associates and 
Others. Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities, Subsidiaries 
and/or Joint Ventures abroad and Others.
	
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted 
for on trade date.
	
i.	
Held to Maturity (‘HTM’)
	
	
The Bank classifies investments as HTM, if both of the following conditions are met:
	
	
•	
The investment is acquired with the intention and objective of holding it to maturity, i.e., the financial assets 
are held with an objective to collect the contractual cash flows; and
	
	
•	
The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on principal outstanding (‘SPPI criterion’) on specified dates.
	
ii.	
Available for Sale (‘AFS’)
	
	
The Bank classifies investments as AFS, if both the following conditions are met:
	
	
•	
The investment is acquired with an objective which is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and 
selling securities; and
	
	
•	
The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that meet SPPI criterion on specified dates.
	
	
The Bank, upon initial recognition, may make an irrevocable election to classify an equity instrument as an AFS 
that is not held with the objective of trading.
	
iii.	
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL)
	
	
The investments that are not classified as HTM or AFS are classified as FVTPL. The Bank classifies investments in 
FVTPL category as either FVTPL-Held for Trading (‘HFT’) or FVTPL Non-HFT. Any investment held by the Bank 
for one or more of the following purposes is, when it is first recognised on its books, designated as a FVTPL HFT:
	
	
•	
short-term resale;
	
	
•	
profiting from short-term price movements;
	
	
•	
locking in arbitrage profits; or
	
	
•	
hedging risks that arise from instruments meeting all of the above
	
	
Investments in listed equities, trading-related repo-style transactions, instruments resulting from market-making 
activities, equity investments in a fund are included in FVTPL HFT category. Investments in unlisted equities are 
included in FVTPL Non-HFT category.

Standalone financial statements
345
	
	
All other investments forming part of FVTPL category are classified as FVTPL Non-HFT.
	
	
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
	
	
All investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures held by Bank are classified under this category 
separately from the aforesaid investment categories.
	
	
Initial recognition
	
	
The Bank measures all investments at fair value on initial recognition. Unless facts and circumstances suggest 
that the fair value is materially different from the acquisition cost, it is presumed that the acquisition cost is 
the fair value.
	
	
i.	
Acquisition cost
	
	
	
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are 
charged to the Profit and Loss Account. Broken period interest is charged to the Profit and Loss Account. 
Cost of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
	
	
ii.	
Day 1 gain/loss
	
	
	
Day 1 Gain/loss is the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and acquisition cost. Any Day 1 
gain/loss arising on quoted investments is recognized in the Profit and Loss Account. Any Day 1 loss arising 
from Level 3 investments is recognised immediately. Any Day 1 gains arising from Level 3 investments is 
deferred. In the case of debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is amortized on a straight-line basis up to the 
maturity date (or earliest call date for perpetual instruments), while for unquoted equity instruments, the gain 
is set aside as a liability until the security is listed or derecognised.
	
	
iii.	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
a.	
Investments classified under the HTM category
	
	
	
Investments held in HTM category are carried at cost and are not Mark-to-Market (MTM) after initial 
recognition. Any discount or premium on the investments under HTM category is amortised over the 
remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of 
Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
	
	
	
Realised gains on sale of investments in HTM category are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and 
subsequently appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves) in 
accordance with the RBI guidelines. Realised losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
	
b.	
Investments classified under AFS category
	
	
	
Investments held in AFS category are fair valued. Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt securities 
under AFS is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the 
financial statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in 
Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
	
	
	
The net valuation gains and losses across all performing investments under AFS is aggregated and the net 
appreciation or depreciation (net of tax) is directly credited or debited to the AFS Reserve without routing 
through the Profit & Loss Account.
	
	
	
The AFS-Reserve is reckoned as Common Equity Tier (CET) 1 capital but not available for distribution of 
dividend and coupon on Additional Tier I instruments.
	
	
	
On sale or maturity of a debt instrument in AFS category, the accumulated gain/ loss for that security in the 
AFS Reserve is transferred from the AFS Reserve and recognized in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
	
	
In the case of equity instruments designated under AFS at the time of initial recognition, any gain or loss 
on sale of such investments is transferred from AFS Reserve to Capital Reserve in accordance with the RBI 
Investment Direction, 2023.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
346
	
	
c.	
Investments classified under FVTPL category
	
	
	
Investments held under FVTPL category are fair valued and the net gain or loss arising on such valuation is 
directly credited or debited to the Profit and Loss Account. Any discount or premium on the debt securities 
under FVTPL category is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is 
reflected in the financial statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ 
with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
	
	
d.	
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
	
	
	
The Bank measures all the investments (i.e., including debt and equity) in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures at acquisition cost.
	
	
	
Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt securities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the financial 
statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’.
	
Valuation
	
The Bank determines the fair values of its investments according to the following hierarchy:
	
Level 1: Valuation based on quoted market price: These investments are valued with quoted prices (unadjusted) for 
identical instruments in active markets that the Bank can access at the measurement date.
	
Level 2: Valuation based on using observable inputs: These investments are valued with inputs other than quoted prices 
included within Level 1, that are observable, either directly or indirectly.
	
Level 3: Valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: These investments are valued using valuation 
techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
	
The fair value of various types of instruments is determined as per the valuation norms laid down in RBI Investment 
Direction 2023, as follows:
	
•	
The fair value of quoted investments (other than discounted instruments) included in the AFS and FVTPL 
categories is considered as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices, yield and spread 
matrix declared by the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/Financial 
Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically.
	
•	
Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted instruments, 
are valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
	
•	
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by the mutual fund.
	
•	
Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) and Unquoted Alternative Investment Fund (AIFs) are valued at Net Asset 
Value (NAV) declared by the funds. Where an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of its investments by 
an independent valuer as per the frequency mandated by SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012, 
the value of its units is treated as Re. 1. In case AIF is not registered under SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) 
Regulations, 2012 and the latest disclosed valuation of its investments by an independent valuer precedes the date 
of valuation by more than 18 months, the value of its units is treated as Re. 1.
	
•	
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures category are assessed for impairment to determine 
permanent diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.
	
•	
The fair value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the 
norms prescribed by the RBI/FIMMDA/FBIL as under:
	
	
a)	
The fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (‘SLR’) 
securities forming part of AFS, FVTPL-HFT and FVTPL Non-HFT categories are computed as per the rates 
published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
	
	
b)	
In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted 
bonds, debentures and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue 

Standalone financial statements
347
beyond 90 days), the market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for such securities as 
published by FIMMDA/FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the 
instrument. The matrix for credit risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual maturity 
issued by FIMMDA/FBIL is adopted for this purpose.
	
	
c)	
In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the 
valuation is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
	
	
d)	
Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) are valued as per extant RBI/FIMMDA guidelines.
	
	
e)	
Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the 
stock exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is 
ascertained from the company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance 
Sheet is not available, the shares are valued at Re. 1 per company.
	
	
f)	
Valuation of investments in private equity funds and limited liability partnership funds is based on valuation 
of their underlying exposures.
	
	
g)	
Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust 
(‘INVIT’) are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not 
traded on any stock exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) 
submitted by the trust.
	
	
h)	
Investments in Government guaranteed Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued periodically by reckoning the 
Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Reconstruction Company (‘ARC’) based on the recovery ratings 
received for such instruments. Any Government guaranteed SRs outstanding after the final settlement of the 
Government guarantee or the expiry of the guarantee period, whichever is earlier, are valued at one rupee (₹1).
	
	
	
Investments in other SRs are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing ARC or net book value of loans 
transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal assessment on case to case basis, 
whichever is lower. Investments in such Security Receipts where original maturity period has expired are 
valued at one rupee (₹1).
	
	
	
In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than 10 percent of the stressed assets sold by the 
Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of face value of the SRs reduced by the 
provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms as applicable to the underlying 
loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
	
Investment asset classification and provisioning
	
Investments under HTM, AFS and FVTPL category are subjected to income recognition, asset classification and 
provisioning norms of RBI. Non-performing Investments (NPIs) are identified and provision is made thereon in the 
Profit and Loss account, as per the RBI guidelines. Once an investment become NPI, the Bank segregates it from rest of 
the portfolio and does not consider it for netting valuation gains and losses. A NPI investment is segregated from other 
investments within the same category [i.e., HTM, AFS, or FVTPL] under which it was classified at initial recognition. 
Interest on NPIs is not recognized in the Profit and Loss Account until received. MTM appreciation in case of NPIs over 
and above the book value is not recognized and ignored.
	
Reclassification between categories
	
Reclassification of investments between categories (viz. HTM, AFS and FVTPL) if any is carried out only after, prior 
approval of Board of Directors and RBI and the same is accounted for in accordance with the RBI guidelines.
	
Short sales
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated 
securities. Such short positions are categorised under FVTPL category and netted off from investments in the Balance 
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under FVTPL portfolio and the resultant 
MTM gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
348
	
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY24
	
Classification
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are classified at the time of purchase as:
	
•	
Held for Trading (‘HFT’);
	
•	
Available for Sale (‘AFS’); and
	
•	
Held to Maturity (‘HTM’).
	
Investments that are held principally for sale within a short period are classified as HFT securities. As per the RBI 
guidelines, HFT securities, which remain unsold for a period of 90 days are transferred to AFS securities.
	
Investments that the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified under the HTM category. Investments in the equity 
of subsidiaries/joint ventures and investments under TLTRO guidelines are categorised as HTM in accordance with the 
RBI guidelines.
	
All other investments are classified as AFS securities.
	
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government Securities, 
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures and Others. 
Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities, Subsidiaries and/or Joint 
Ventures abroad and Others.
	
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted 
for on trade date.
	
Transfer of security between categories
	
Transfer of security between categories of investments is accounted for as per the RBI guidelines.
	
Acquisition cost
	
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are charged to 
the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Broken period interest on debt instruments and government securities is charged to the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Cost of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
	
Valuation
	
Investments classified under the HTM category: Investments are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the 
face value, in which case the premium is amortised over the period remaining to maturity on a constant yield to maturity 
basis. Such amortization of premium is adjusted against interest income under the head ‘Income from Investments’ 
under Schedule 13 in Profit and Loss Account. As per the RBI guidelines, discount on securities held under HTM 
category is not accrued and such securities are held at the acquisition cost till maturity.
	
Investments in subsidiaries/joint ventures are categorised as HTM and assessed for impairment to determine permanent 
diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.
	
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Investments under these categories are marked to market. 
The market/fair value of quoted investments included in the AFS and HFT categories is the market price of the scrip 
as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices declared by the Fixed Income Money Market 
and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically. Net 
depreciation, if any, within each category of each investment classification is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. 
The net appreciation, if any, under each category of each investment classification is ignored. Net depreciation on each 
type of investments falling under the residual category of ‘Others’ (i.e. mutual funds, Pass Through Certificates (PTCs), 
security receipts etc.) is not offset against gain in another class of investment falling within the ‘Others’ category. Further, 
in case of standard investments classified as weak as per the Bank’s internal framework (including certain internally 
unrated investments), the Bank recognizes net depreciation without availing the benefit of set‐off against appreciation 

Standalone financial statements
349
within the same class of investments as permitted under the extant RBI circular. The depreciation on securities acquired 
by way of conversion of outstanding loans is provided in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Provision for depreciation 
on investments is classified under Schedule-14 ‘Other Income’. The book value of individual securities is not changed 
consequent to the periodic valuation of investments.
	
Non-performing investments are identified and provision is made thereon as per the RBI guidelines. Provision for 
depreciation on such non-performing investments is not set off against the appreciation in respect of other performing 
securities as per RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing investments is not recognized in the Profit and Loss Account 
until received.
	
Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted instruments, are 
valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
	
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by the mutual fund.
	
Market value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the norms 
prescribed by the RBI as under:
	
•	
The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio 
(‘SLR’) securities forming part of AFS and HFT categories is computed as per the rates published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
	
•	
In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted bonds, 
debentures and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue beyond 90 days), 
the market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for Government Securities as published by 
FIMMDA/FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the instrument. The matrix 
for credit risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual maturity issued by FIMMDA/FBIL 
is adopted for this purpose.
	
•	
In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the valuation 
is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
	
•	
PTC and Priority Sector PTCs are valued as per extant FIMMDA guidelines.
	
•	
Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the stock 
exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is ascertained 
from the company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance Sheet is not 
available, the shares are valued at `1 per company.
	
•	
Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust (‘INVIT’) 
are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not traded on any 
stock exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) submitted by the trust.
	
•	
Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) / Alternative Investment Funds (‘AIF’) held under AFS category where 
current quotations are not available are valued based on NAV as published in the latest audited financial statements 
of the fund or NAV as provided by the fund. In case the audited financials are not available for a period beyond 18 
months, the investments are valued at `1 per VCF / AIF. Investment in unquoted VCF / AIF may be categorized 
under HTM category for the initial period of three years and are valued at cost as per the RBI guidelines.
	
•	
Investments in Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing Asset Reconstruction 
Company (‘ARC’) or net book value of loans transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal 
assessment on case to case basis, whichever is lower. In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than 
10 percent of the stressed assets sold by the Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of 
face value of the SRs reduced by the provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms 
as applicable to the underlying loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
	
Disposal of investments
	
Investments classified under the HTM category: Realised gains are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and 
subsequently appropriated to Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves) in accordance 
with the RBI guidelines. Losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
350
	
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Realised gains/losses are recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account.
	
Short sales
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated 
securities. Such short positions are categorised under HFT category and netted off from investments in the Balance 
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under HFT portfolio and the resultant 
Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’) gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.
5.2	 Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions
	
Repurchase transactions (‘Repos’)
	
Repurchase transactions in Government securities and corporate debt securities including those conducted under the 
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Marginal Standby Facility (‘MSF’) with RBI are accounted for as collateralised 
borrowings. Accordingly, securities given as collateral under an agreement to repurchase them, continue to be held 
under the investment account and the Bank continues to accrue the coupon on the security during the repo period. 
Borrowing cost on such repo transactions is accounted as interest expense in “Schedule 15 – Interest Expended” in the 
Profit and Loss Account.
	
Reverse repurchase transactions (‘Reverse repos’)
	
Reverse repurchase transactions with RBI with original maturity upto 14 days, including those conducted under the 
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Standing Deposit Facility (‘SDF’), are accounted for as collateralised lending 
under “Schedule 6 - Balances with RBI - in Other Accounts”. Reverse repurchase transactions with banks and other 
financial institutions with original maturity upto 14 days, are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule 
7 - Balances with Banks and Money at call and short notice”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest 
income under “Schedule 13 – Interest Earned – Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and Other Inter-bank 
Funds” in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Reverse repos with original maturity of more than 14 days are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule 
9 - Advances”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest income under “Schedule 13 - Interest Earned 
– Interest/discount on advances/bills” in the Profit and Loss account.
5.3	 Advances
	
Classification and measurement of advances
	
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and are stated 
net of bills rediscounted, inter-bank participation certificates, specific provisions made towards NPAs, interest in 
suspense for NPAs, claims received from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation, provisions for funded interest on term 
loans classified as NPAs and floating provisions. Structured collateralised foreign currency loans extended to customers 
and deposits received from the same customer are reported on a net basis.
	
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank participation with and without risk. In accordance with the RBI 
guidelines, in the case of participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued by the Bank is 
reduced from advances and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of the participation is classified 
under advances. In the case of participation without risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank is 
classified under borrowings and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of participation is shown as due 
from banks under advances.
	
Non-performing advances and provision on non-performing advances
	
NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by the RBI. Advances 
held at the overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than 
record of recovery, but which are standard as per the RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount 
outstanding in the host country. NPAs are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.

Standalone financial statements
351
	
Provisions for NPAs are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets at rates as prescribed by the RBI with the exception 
of schematic retail advances, agriculture advances and advances to Commercial Banking segment. In respect of 
schematic retail advances, provisions are made in terms of a bucket-wise policy upon reaching specified stages of 
delinquency (90 days or more of delinquency) under each type of loan, which satisfies the RBI prudential norms on 
provisioning. Provisions in respect of Commercial Banking segment advances and agriculture advances classified into 
sub-standard and doubtful assets are made at rates which are higher than those prescribed by the RBI.
	
Provisions for advances booked in overseas branches, which are standard as per the RBI guidelines but are identified 
as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than record of recovery, are made as per the host 
country regulations.
	
In case of NPAs referred to the National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 (‘IBC’) where resolution plan or liquidation order has been approved by NCLT, provision is maintained at higher of 
the requirement under the RBI guidelines or the likely haircut as per resolution plan or liquidation order.
	
Loans reported as fraud are classified as loss assets, and fully provided for immediately without considering the 
value of security.
	
Provision on restructured assets
	
Restructured assets including compromise settlements where the time for payment of the agreed settlement 
amount exceeds three months are classified and provided for in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI 
from time to time.
	
In respect of advances where resolution plan has been implemented under the RBI guidelines on “Resolution Framework 
for COVID 19-related Stress” and “Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Sector – Restructuring of Advances”, 
provisions are maintained as per the internal framework of the Bank at rates which are higher than those specified 
under the extant RBI guidelines. Restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
	
Provisions held on restructured assets are reported in Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
	
Write-offs and recoveries from written-off accounts
	
Write-offs are carried out in accordance with the Bank’s policy.
	
Amounts recovered against debts written off are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as a credit to Provision 
and Contingencies.
	
Appropriation of funds for standard advances
	
In case of Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) based standard retail advances, funds received from customers are 
appropriated in the order of principal, interest and charges. In case of other standard advances, funds received from 
customers are appropriated in the order of charges, interest and principal.
	
Other provisions on advances classified under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’ in the Balance Sheet
	
The Bank recognises additional provisions as per the RBI’s guidelines on accounts in default and with aggregate 
exposure above the threshold limits as laid down in the guidelines where the resolution plan is not implemented within 
the specified timelines. These provisions are written back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
	
In respect of borrowers classified as non-cooperative or wilful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated provisions as per 
the extant RBI guidelines.
	
In the case of one-time settlements with borrowers that are entered into but not closed as on the reporting date, the 
Bank makes provisions which is the higher of (i) the provision required based on asset classification; and (ii) the amount 
of contracted sacrifice, on a portfolio basis.
	
The Bank makes incremental provisioning (determined based on a time scale and on occurrence of predefined events) 
on all outstanding advances and investments relating to borrowers tagged as Red Flagged Accounts (‘RFA’).
	
For entities with Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure (‘UFCE’), provision is made in accordance with the guidelines 
issued by the RBI, which requires ascertaining the amount of UFCE, estimating the extent of likely loss and estimating 
the riskiness of the unhedged position. Further, incremental capital is maintained in respect of such borrower counter 
parties in the highest risk category, in line with stipulations by the RBI.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
352
	
The Bank maintains provisions for incremental exposure of the banking system to specified borrowers beyond the 
Normally Permitted Lending Limit (‘NPLL’) in proportion to the Bank’s funded exposure to the specified borrowers as 
per the RBI guidelines.
	
The Bank maintains a general provision on standard advances at the rates prescribed by the RBI. In respect of advances 
to stressed sectors, such general provision is made at rates higher than the regulatory minimum as per the internal 
policy of the Bank. The general provision on corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’ 
and all Special Mention Accounts-2 (‘SMA-2’) advances as reported to Central Repository of Information on Large 
Credits (‘CRILC’), is maintained at rates that are higher than those prescribed by RBI. In case of overseas branches, 
general provision on standard advances is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the respective overseas 
regulator or by the extant RBI guidelines. The Bank also maintains general provision on positive Mark-to-Market (MTM) 
on derivative transactions at the rates prescribed under the extant RBI guidelines.
	
The Bank also maintains additional provision on standard accounts in a particular borrower group where one or 
more entity in the group is classified as NPA, subject to the aggregate outstanding of such entities being above a 
certain threshold limit. Such provision is in addition to and at rates higher than the provision for standard assets as 
prescribed by RBI.
	
The Bank also maintains provision on non-funded outstanding in relation to NPAs, prudentially written off accounts, 
corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’ and all SMA-2 advances as reported to CRILC.
	
Under its home loan portfolio, the Bank offers housing loans with certain features involving waiver of EMIs for a specific 
period subject to fulfilment of certain conditions by the borrower. The Bank makes provision against the probable 
loss that could be incurred in future on account of these waivers to eligible borrowers, based on actuarial valuation 
conducted by an independent actuary.
	
As approved by the Board of Directors, the Bank holds prudent provision under other contingencies of `5,012 crores 
towards potential expected losses on certain standard advances and / or exposures.
5.4	 Country risk
	
In addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are held for 
individual country exposure (other than for home country) as per the RBI guidelines. Such provisions are held only in 
respect of those countries where the net funded exposure of the Bank exceeds 1% of its total assets. For this purpose, 
the countries are categorized into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderate, high, very high, restricted 
and off-credit as per internal parameters in accordance with RBI guidelines. Provision is made on exposures exceeding 
180 days on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 100%. For exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 days, 
25% of the normal provision requirement is held. If the net funded exposure of the Bank in respect of each country 
does not exceed 1% of the total assets, no provision is maintained on such country exposure in accordance with RBI 
guidelines. Indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure. This provision is classified under Schedule 5 – Other 
Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
5.5	 Securitisation and transfer of assets
	
Securitisation of Standard Assets
	
The Bank enters into purchase/sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment/Special Purpose Vehicle 
(‘SPV’). In most cases, post securitisation, the Bank continues to service the loans transferred to the assignee/SPV. 
The Bank also provides credit enhancement in the form of cash collaterals and/or by subordination of cash flows to 
Senior Pass Through Certificate holders. In respect of credit enhancements provided or recourse obligations (projected 
delinquencies, future servicing etc.) accepted by the Bank, appropriate provision/disclosure is made at the time of sale 
in accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as notified under Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021. In accordance with RBI guidelines on Securitisation of Standard Assets, any loss, profit or 
premium realised at the time of the sale is accounted for in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during 
which the sale is completed. However, in case of unrealised gains arising out of sale of underlying assets to the SPV, 
the profit is recognised in Profit and Loss Account only when such unrealised gains associated with such income is 
redeemed in cash.

Standalone financial statements
353
	
Transfer of Loan Exposures
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines on Transfer of Loan exposures, any profit or loss arising post transfer of loans, which 
is realised, is accounted for and reflected in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during which the 
transfer is completed. Loans acquired are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the outstanding principal at 
the time of the transfer, in which case the premium paid is amortised based on a straight line method.
5.6	 Priority Sector Lending Certificates
	
The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (‘PSLCs’). In the case 
of a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction 
the Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through the RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of loan 
assets in PSLC transactions.
5.7	 Translation of Foreign Currency items
	
In respect of domestic operations, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for at the rates 
prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the closing 
rates of exchange as notified by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India (‘FEDAI’). All profits/losses resulting 
from year end revaluations are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Financial statements of foreign branches classified as non-integral foreign operations as per the RBI guidelines, are 
translated as follows:
	
•	
Assets and liabilities (both monetary and non-monetary as well as contingent liabilities) are translated at closing 
exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the Balance Sheet date.
	
•	
Income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the date of the transactions.
	
•	
All resulting exchange differences are accumulated in a separate ‘Foreign Currency Translation Reserve’ (FCTR) till 
the disposal of the net investments. Any realised gains or losses on such disposal are recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account except for those that relate to repatriation of accumulated profits which are reclassified from FCTR 
to ‘Balance in Profit and Loss Account’ under Schedule 2 – Reserves and Surplus in the Balance Sheet.
	
Contingent liabilities on account of forward exchange and derivative contracts, guarantees, acceptances, endorsements 
and other obligations denominated in foreign currencies are disclosed at closing rates of exchange notified by FEDAI.
5.8	 Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
	
Derivative transactions comprise of forward contracts, swaps, FRAs, futures and options which are disclosed as 
contingent liabilities. The forwards, swaps and options are categorised as trading or hedge transactions.
	
Trading derivatives
	
Trading derivative contracts are revalued based on actual traded and/or derived from curves published by external 
market sources or FBIL with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive MTM) and in other liabilities (representing negative MTM ) 
on a gross basis.
	
Outstanding forward exchange contracts including tom/spot contracts (excluding swaps undertaken to hedge foreign 
currency assets/liabilities and funding swaps) as at Balance Sheet date are revalued at closing spot and forward rates as 
applicable as notified by FEDAI/FBIL and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. Valuation is considered 
on present value basis by discounting the forward value till cash date using Alternative Reference Rate (‘ARR’) curve and 
converting the foreign currency amount using the respective spot rates as notified by FEDAI/FBIL. The resulting gains 
or losses on revaluation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Currency futures contracts are mark-to-market, using the daily settlement price on a trading day, which is the closing 
price of the respective futures contracts on that day. While the daily settlement price is computed based on the last 
half an hour weighted average price of such contracts, the final settlement price is taken as the RBI reference rate on 
the last trading day of the futures contracts or as may be specified by the relevant authority from time to time. All 
open positions are marked-to-market based on the settlement price and the resultant MTM profit/loss is daily settled 
with the exchange.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
354
	
Valuation of Exchange Traded Currency Options (‘ETCO’) is carried out using internal pricing models and valuation 
of Interest Rate Futures (‘IRF’) is carried out on the basis of the daily settlement price of each contract provided 
by the exchange.
	
Premium on options is recognized as income/expense on expiry or early termination of the transaction.
	
Hedging derivatives including funding swaps
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading (including funding swaps), that are entered into to establish 
the amount of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at 
the Balance Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. The premium or discount arising at the inception 
of such forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line basis as expense or income over the life of the contract.
	
For hedge transactions through other derivatives, the Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception 
of transaction itself. The effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter. 
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognized 
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of hedging instrument for 
the effective portion is recognised in Schedule 2- ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under ‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’ and the 
ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The 
accumulated balance in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the Profit and 
Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Provisioning
	
Pursuant to the RBI guidelines, any receivables under derivative contracts comprising of crystallised receivables as well 
as positive MTM in respect of future receivables which remain overdue for more than 90 days are reversed through the 
Profit and Loss account and are held in a separate suspense account under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’.
5.9	 Revenue recognition
	
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with AS–9, Revenue Recognition as notified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and the RBI guidelines, except in the case of interest income on non-performing 
assets where it is recognised on receipt basis as per the income recognition and asset classification norms of RBI. Any 
discount or premium on the investments in debt-securities is amortised as interest income over the remaining life of the 
instrument. Interest income on investments in PTCs is recognized on a constant yield basis.
	
Commission on Guarantees and Letters of Credit (‘LC’) is recognized on a pro-rata basis over the period of the Guarantee/
LC. Locker rent is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of contract. Annual fee for credit cards and debit 
cards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of service. Arrangership/syndication fee is accounted for on 
completion of the agreed service and when the right to receive is established.
	
Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate collection. 
Penal charges on loans are recognized as income on actual realization.
	
Other fees and commission income are recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate 
collection. Payouts made to network partners and entities with co-branded arrangements, in the nature of sharing of 
fees or based on driver of volume/spends are netted off from the respective fee and commission income.
	
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
	
Gain/loss on sell down of loans and advances through direct assignment is recognised at the time of sale.
	
Fees paid for purchase of PSLCs are amortised on straight-line basis over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Other Expenditure’ 
under Schedule 16 of the Profit and Loss Account. Fees received on sale of PSLCs are amortised on straight-line basis 
over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Miscellaneous Income’ under Schedule 14 of the Profit and Loss Account.
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines on sale of non-performing advances, if the sale is at a price below the net book 
value (i.e. book value less provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and Loss Account. If the sale is for a 
value higher than the net book value, the excess provision is credited to the Profit and Loss Account in the year the 
amounts are received.

Standalone financial statements
355
	
The Bank deals in bullion on a consignment basis. The difference between the amount recovered from customers and 
cost of bullion is accounted for at the time of sale to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and 
lending basis and the interest paid/received is accounted for on an accrual basis.
5.10	Fixed assets and depreciation
	
Fixed assets are carried at cost of acquisition less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Cost includes initial 
handling and delivery charges, duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the 
asset. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only when it increases the future economic 
benefit / functioning capability from / of such assets.
	
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of fixed assets that are not ready for their intended use and also includes 
advances paid to acquire fixed assets.
	
Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful life of a fixed asset on straight-line method from the date of addition. 
The Management believes that depreciation rates currently used, fairly reflect its estimate of the useful lives and 
residual values of fixed assets based on the historical experience of the Bank, though these rates in certain cases are 
different from those prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. Whenever there is a revision of the 
estimated useful life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over the revised remaining useful life 
of the said asset.
Asset
Estimated useful life
As per Companies Act, 2013
Leased Land
As per the term of the agreement
-
Owned premises
60 years
60 years
Furniture and Fittings including interior
9 years to 10 years
10 years
Office/Electrical equipment and installations
5 years to 10 years
5 years to 10 years
Application software
5 years
-
Vehicles
4 years
8 years
Computer hardware including printers
3 years
3 years
CCTV and video conferencing equipment
3 years
5 years
	
Assets costing less than `5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
	
Depreciation on assets sold during the year is recognised on a pro-rata basis in the Profit and Loss Accounts till 
the date of sale.
	
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of fixed assets are determined as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of assets and are recognised as income or expense in the Profit and Loss 
Account. Further, profit on sale of premises is appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to 
Statutory Reserve) in accordance with RBI instructions.
5.11	Impairment of Fixed Assets
	
The carrying amounts of fixed assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to ascertain if there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal/external factors. An impairment loss is recognised wherever the carrying amount of an 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and value 
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value at the weighted 
average cost of capital. After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying amount of the asset over its 
remaining useful life.
5.12	Non-banking assets
	
Non-banking assets (‘NBAs’) acquired in satisfaction of claims include land. In the case of land, the Bank creates 
provision and follows the accounting treatment as per specific RBI directions.
5.13	Lease Transactions
	
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership over the lease term are 
classified as operating lease. Lease payments for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
356
Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless the payments are structured to increase in 
line with expected general inflation to compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increase. Lease income 
from assets given on operating lease is recognized as income in the Profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis over 
the lease term.
5.14	Employee benefits
	
Short-term employee benefits
	
Short-term employee benefits comprise salaries and other compensations payable for services which the employee has 
rendered during the period. These are recognized at the undiscounted amount in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Defined benefit plans
	
The Bank has defined benefit plans in the form of provident fund, gratuity and resettlement allowance. Provident and 
Gratuity are in the nature of funded defined benefit plans and resettlement allowance is in the nature of unfunded 
defined benefit plan.
	
•	
Provident Fund
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined benefit plan wherein the contributions are charged 
to the Profit and Loss Account of the year when such contributions are due and when services are rendered 
by the employees. Further, an actuarial valuation is conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year to determine the deficiency, if any, in the interest payable on the 
contributions as compared to the interest liability as per the statutory rate declared by the Central Government 
and the shortfall, if any, due to fluctuations in price or impairment, in the aggregate asset values of the Trust as 
compared to the market value. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and are not deferred.
	
	
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary 
towards respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines.
	
•	
Gratuity
	
	
The Bank contributes towards gratuity fund (defined benefit retirement plan) administered by various insurers for 
eligible employees. Under this scheme, the settlement obligation remains with the Bank, although the insurers 
administer the scheme and determine the contribution premium required to be paid by the Bank. The plan 
provides a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement or termination of employment based on the 
respective employee’s salary and the years of employment with the Bank. The liability with regard to the gratuity 
fund is recognised based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected Unit 
Credit Method as at each reporting date based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth, 
mortality and staff attrition. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognized in the Profit and Loss Account and 
are not deferred.
	
	
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment 
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Pending 
notification of the Code and issuance of the final rules/interpretation, the Bank has adopted a prudent policy for 
recognition of provision in respect of the gratuity liability under the Code over and above the provisions made 
in the normal course based on the extant rules. Such provision is determined as at each reporting date, based on 
actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
	
	
In respect of employees at overseas branches (other than expatriates), the liability with regard to gratuity is 
provided on the basis of a prescribed method as per local laws, wherever applicable.
	
•	
Resettlement Allowance
	
	
The Bank provides for resettlement allowance liability in the form of six months’ pay at the time of separation, for 
certain eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition. 
Provision for this liability is based on an actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the 

Standalone financial statements
357
Projected Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year based on certain assumptions regarding discount rate and 
salary escalation rate.
	
Defined Contribution plans
	
•	
Superannuation
	
	
Employees of the Bank (other than those who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business 
acquisition) are entitled to receive retirement benefits under the Bank’s superannuation scheme either under a 
cash-out option through salary or under a defined contribution plan. Through this defined contribution plan, the 
Bank contributes annually a sum equal to 10% of the employee’s eligible annual basic salary to the Life Insurance 
Corporation of India (LIC), which undertakes to pay the lump sum and annuity benefit payments pursuant to the 
scheme. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
	
	
Eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition are entitled 
to receive a lumpsum corpus amount under a separate superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of 10 years as 
a defined contribution plan. Through this plan, the Bank makes a defined contribution annually of a sum equal to 
15% of such employee’s eligible annual basic salary to a Superannuation Trust, which undertakes to pay the lump 
sum payments pursuant to the scheme after the vesting period. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
	
•	
National Pension Scheme (‘NPS’)
	
	
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the NPS, the Bank contributes a certain percentage of the 
total basic salary of such employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined contribution plan, which is managed and 
administered by pension fund management companies. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account in the period in which they accrue.
5.15	Reward points
	
The Bank runs a loyalty program which seeks to recognize and reward customers based on their relationship with 
the Bank. Under the program, eligible customers are granted loyalty points redeemable in future, subject to certain 
conditions. In addition, the Bank continues to grant reward points in respect of certain credit cards (not covered under 
the loyalty program). The Bank estimates the provision for such loyalty/reward points using an actuarial method at the 
Balance Sheet date through an independent actuary, basis assumptions such as redemption rate, lapse rate, discount 
rate, value of reward points etc. Provision for the said reward points is then made based on the actuarial valuation 
report as furnished by the said independent actuary.
5.16	Taxation
	
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax charge. Current year taxes are determined 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and considering the material principles set out in 
the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to the extent applicable. Deferred income taxes reflect the impact 
of current year timing differences between taxable income and accounting income for the year and reversal of timing 
differences of earlier years.
	
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates and the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance 
Sheet date. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off assets 
against liabilities representing current tax and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to the taxes on 
income levied by same governing taxation laws.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future taxable 
income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. The impact of changes in the deferred 
tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised and reassessed at each reporting date, based upon the Management’s judgement 
as to whether realisation is considered as reasonably certain. Deferred tax assets are recognised on carry forward of 
unabsorbed depreciation and tax losses only if there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that such 
deferred tax asset can be realised against future profits.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
358
5.17	Share issue expenses
	
Share issue expenses are adjusted from the Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.18	Corporate Social Responsibility
	
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.19	Earnings per share
	
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share, as notified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
	
Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue equity 
shares were exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average 
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding at the year end except where the results 
are anti-dilutive.
5.20	Employee stock option/unit scheme
	
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) provides for grant of stock options on equity shares of the Bank to 
employees and Directors, of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Under the Scheme, options are granted at an exercise price, 
which is equal to the fair market price of the underlying equity shares at the date of the grant. The fair market price is 
the latest available closing price, prior to the date of grant, on the stock exchange on which the shares of the Bank are 
listed. If the shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, then the stock exchange where there is highest trading 
volume on the said date is considered.
	
Further, the Employees Stock Unit Scheme (‘the ESU Scheme’) provides for grant of stock units convertible into 
equivalent number of fully paid-up equity share(s) of the Bank to eligible employees. The stock units are granted at an 
exercise price as determined by the Bank and specified at the time of grant which shall not be less than the face value 
of the equity shares of the Bank.
	
As per RBI guidelines, for options/units granted after 31 March, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method and 
recognizes the fair value of such options/units computed using the Black-Scholes model without reducing estimated 
forfeitures, as compensation expense over the vesting period. On exercise of the stock options/units, the corresponding 
balance under Employee Stock Options/Units Outstanding account is transferred to the Share Premium account. In 
respect of the options/units which expire unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock Options/
Units Outstanding account is transferred to the General Reserve. In respect of Employee Stock Options/Units which are 
granted to the employees of the subsidiaries, the Bank recovers the cost from the subsidiaries over the vesting period.
5.21	Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
	
In accordance with AS-29 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, provision is recognised when the 
Bank has a present obligation as a result of past event where it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are not discounted to its present 
value and are determined based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date. These 
are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
	
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
	
•	
a possible obligation arising from a past event, the existence of which will be confirmed by occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not within the control of the Bank; or
	
•	
a present obligation arising from a past event which is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made.
	
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is 
remote, no provision or disclosure is made.

Standalone financial statements
359
	
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements. However, contingent assets are assessed continually 
and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the asset and related income are recognised in 
the period in which the change occurs.
5.22	Accounting for dividend
	
As per AS-4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance Sheet date’ as notified by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, the Bank does not account for proposed dividend 
as a liability through appropriation from the Profit and Loss Account. The same is recognised in the year of actual 
payout post approval of the shareholders. However, the Bank considers proposed dividend in determining capital funds 
in computing the capital adequacy ratio as on the reporting date.
5.23	Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, rupee digital currency, balances with RBI, balances with other banks 
and money at call and short notice.
5.24	Segment Reporting
	
The disclosure relating to segment information is made in accordance with AS-17: ‘Segment Reporting’ and relevant 
guidelines issued by the RBI.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
360
18.	 Notes forming part of the financial statements
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
1	
Statutory disclosures as per RBI
1.1	 Regulatory Capital
a) 	
Composition of Regulatory Capital
	
The Bank’s capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (‘Capital Adequacy Ratio’) is calculated in accordance with the RBI 
guidelines on Basel III capital regulations (‘Basel III’). The minimum capital ratio requirement under Basel III is as follows:
Minimum ratio of Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets (RWAs)
% of RWA
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1)
8.00
Tier 1 capital
9.50
Total capital
11.50
	
The capital adequacy ratio of the Bank, calculated as per the RBI guidelines (under Basel III) is set out below:
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Capital
Common Equity Tier I (CET I)
169,352.18
142,841.03
Additional Tier I capital
 4,591.23
 4,792.38
Tier I capital
173,943.41
147,633.41
Tier II capital
 23,113.44
 25,230.77
Total capital (Tier I + Tier II)
197,056.85
 172,864.18
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
11,54,074.65
10,39,312.61
Capital ratios
CET I
 14.67%
13.74%
Tier I
15.07%
14.20%
Tier II
 2.00%
 2.43%
Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR)
17.07%
 16.63%
Leverage Ratio
9.18%
8.52%
Percentage of the Shareholding of Government of India
Nil
Nil
Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year 1
2.16
1.94
Amount of Non- equity Tier I capital raised during the year
-
-
Amount of Tier II capital raised during the year
-
-
	
1.	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank raised `685.87 crores (consisting of share capital of `2.16 crores and share premium of 
`683.71 crores) pursuant to the exercise of options/units under its employee stock option/units scheme (Previous year `557.21 crores, 
consisting of share capital of `1.94 crores and share premium of `555.27 crores).
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank has not raised any non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-I/Tier-II capital.
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank redeemed non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-II capital, the details of 
which are set out below:
Instrument
Capital
Date of maturity
Period
Coupon
Amount
Subordinated debt
Tier-II
12 February, 2025
120 months
8.45%
`850.00 crores
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised or redeemed any non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-I/
Tier-II capital.

Standalone financial statements
361
b) 	
Capital and Reserves and Surplus
i)	
Share Capital
	
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised equity capital other than through 
allotment of equity shares to eligible employees upon exercise of options/units under its Employees Stock Option/Unit 
Scheme. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the exercise of options/units, the Bank has raised `685.87 
crores, consisting of share capital of `2.16 crores and share premium of `683.71 crores (Previous year `557.21 crores, 
consisting of share capital of `1.94 crores and share premium of `555.27 crores).
ii)	
Draw down from Reserves
	
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024 the Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves.
iii)	
Capital Reserve
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank appropriated `214.35 crores (previous year `139.55 crores) to 
the Capital Reserve, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory Reserve, being the gain on sale of HTM investments in 
accordance with RBI guidelines.
iv)	
Special Reserve
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank appropriated `1,024.73 crores (previous year `968.13 crores) to the 
Special Reserve created and maintained in terms of Section 36 (1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
v)	
Investment Reserve
	
Effective 1st April, 2024 the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on 
Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment 
Direction 2023’). Accordingly, as prescribed under the transition provisions of the RBI Investment Direction 2023, the 
Bank has transferred the balance in the Investment Reserve Account as at 31 March, 2024 of `242.29 crores to the 
General Reserve.
	
During the previous year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank had appropriated `242.29 crores to the Investment Reserve 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines.
vi)	
General Reserve
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank transferred `7.98 crores (previous year `2.20 crores) to the General 
Reserve from the Employee Stock Options/Units Outstanding Account, in respect of vested employee stock options/
units that have lapsed during the year. Further, the Bank has also transferred to the General Reserve an amount of 
`242.29 crores from the Investment Reserve and an amount of `1,217.86 crores (net of tax) on account of reversal of 
balance in provision for depreciation on investments as at 31 March, 2024 and adjustment for the difference between 
the carrying value of its investment portfolio as per the revised framework and the previous carrying value as at 31 
March, 2024, as per the transition provisions of RBI Investment Direction 2023.
vii)	 Investment Fluctuation Reserve
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank appropriated `248.00 crores (previous year `879.00 crores) to the 
Investment Fluctuation Reserve in accordance with RBI guidelines.
viii)	 Available for Sale (AFS) Reserve
	
The valuation gains and losses at the year ended 31 March, 2025, across all performing investments held under AFS 
category investments are aggregated and the net appreciation amounting to `110.39 crores (net of tax) has been 
directly recognised in the AFS Reserve.
ix)	
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank recognised a loss of `1.64 crores (previous year Nil) in the Cash Flow 
Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
362
1.2	 Asset Liability management
a)	
Maturity pattern of certain items of assets and liabilities1
As at 31 March, 2025	
(` in crores)
Deposits2
Advances2,3
Investments2,5
Borrowings2
Foreign 
Currency 
Assets4
Foreign 
Currency 
Liabilities4
1 day
19,725.27
9,009.03
1,50,290.01
-
18,244.42
828.23
2 days to 7 days
48,390.24
25,386.67
30,356.65
292.11
6,405.06
2,006.05
8 days to 14 days
20,856.54
13,050.99
11,706.88
446.51
1,161.41
2,000.94
15 days to 30 days
43,916.84
22,683.85
13,959.21
3,330.65
5,485.67
4,107.89
31 days and upto 2 months
51,965.92
60,368.17
12,861.37
5,628.96
11,184.97
6,880.45
Over 2 months and upto 3 months
54,111.68
31,257.99
11,387.57
10,203.98
6,908.00
9,663.60
Over 3 months and upto 6 months
97,622.04
40,740.37
14,964.04
31,003.11
10,743.45
22,387.51
Over 6 months and upto 1 year
1,60,994.43
76,796.43
23,495.77
33,639.38
4,796.35
16,484.63
Over 1 year and upto 3 years
76,932.86
2,17,950.51
23,825.03
67,288.90
4,513.33
18,279.92
Over 3 years and upto 5 years
5,901.19
1,21,820.19
3,977.25
7,567.74
3,722.42
4,085.90
Over 5 years
5,92,535.01
4,21,747.12
98,932.49
24,745.18
25,525.34
11,435.14
Total
11,72,952.02
10,40,811.32
3,95,756.27
1,84,146.52
98,690.42
98,160.26
 As at 31 March, 2024	
(` in crores)
Deposits2
Advances2,3
Investments2,5
Borrowings2
Foreign 
Currency 
Assets4
Foreign 
Currency 
Liabilities4
1 day
20,523.02
9,394.96
111,706.75
-
13,512.02
565.97
2 days to 7 days
41,749.42
16,884.89
25,962.79
66.69
7,254.66
1,272.63
8 days to 14 days
19,843.30
15,640.85
8,165.44
716.26
3,135.31
925.25
15 days to 30 days
34,001.38
29,615.90
7,911.23
3,100.29
8,408.57
4,048.04
31 days and upto 2 months
48,295.64
42,527.96
10,105.92
7,239.27
5,660.88
8,118.47
Over 2 months and upto 3 months
47,234.34
17,823.76
6,861.73
6,117.10
4,895.40
7,226.87
Over 3 months and upto 6 months
84,434.44
33,642.06
12,412.06
27,909.32
5,814.20
12,988.67
Over 6 months and upto 1 year
152,613.69
67,809.25
22,069.38
44,153.60
4,077.35
21,150.80
Over 1 year and upto 3 years
42,875.57
200,276.23
24,444.06
76,303.05
7,887.29
18,535.92
Over 3 years and upto 5 years
5,564.14
108,893.22
7,875.92
11,114.15
3,891.01
2,652.34
Over 5 years
571,506.45
422,559.30
93,826.94
20,092.02
23,184.22
9,661.80
Total
10,68,641.39
965,068.38
331,342.22
196,811.75
87,720.91
87,146.75
	
1.	
Classification of assets and liabilities under the different maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and 
assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, which has been relied upon 
by the auditors.
	
2.	
Includes foreign currency balances.
	
3.	
For the purpose of disclosing the maturity pattern, advances that have been subject to risk participation vide Inter-
Bank Participation Certificates (‘IBPCs’) and Funded Risk Participation (‘FRPs’) have been classified in the maturity 
bucket corresponding to the contractual maturities of IBPC/FRP instruments.
	
4.	
Maturity profile of foreign currency assets and liabilities excludes off balance sheet items.
	
5.	
Listed equity investments (except strategic investments) have been considered at 50% haircut as per RBI directions.
b)	
Disclosure on Liquidity Coverage Ratio
	
Qualitative disclosure
	
The Bank has adopted the Basel III framework on liquidity standards as prescribed by RBI and has put in place 
requisite systems and processes to enable periodical computation and reporting of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
(LCR). The mandated regulatory threshold is embedded into the Risk Appetite Statement of the Bank thus subjecting 
LCR maintenance to Board oversight and periodical review. The Bank computes the LCR and reports the same to 

Standalone financial statements
363
the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) every month for review as well as to the Risk Management 
Committee of the Board.
	
The Bank computes LCR on a daily basis and in accordance with RBI guidelines the quarterly disclosures of LCR contain 
data on the simple average calculated on daily observations over the quarter.
	
The Bank follows the criteria laid down by RBI for calculation of High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), gross outflows 
and inflows within the next 30-day period. HQLA predominantly comprises Government securities viz. Treasury Bills, 
Central and State Government securities. A relatively smaller part of HQLA is accounted for by the corporate bonds 
with mandated haircuts applied thereto.
	
The Bank monitors the concentration of funding sources from significant counterparties, significant instruments/
products as part of the asset liability management framework. The Bank adheres to the regulatory and internal limits 
on Inter-bank liability and call money borrowings which form part of the ALM policy. The Bank’s funding sources are 
fairly dispersed across sources and maturities.
	
Expected derivative cash outflows and inflows are calculated for outstanding contracts in accordance with laid down 
valuation methodologies. Cash flows, if any, from collaterals posted against derivatives are not considered.
	
Apart from the LCR position in all currencies put together, the Bank monitors the LCR in US Dollar currency which 
qualifies as a significant currency as per RBI guidelines.
	
The liquidity management of the Bank is undertaken by the Asset Liability Management group in the Treasury department 
in accordance with the Board approved policies and ALCO approved funding plans. The Risk department measures 
and monitors the liquidity profile of the Bank with reference to the Board approved limits, for both domestic as well 
as overseas operations, on a static as well as on a dynamic basis by using the gap analysis technique supplemented 
by monitoring of key liquidity ratios and periodical liquidity stress testing. Periodical reports are placed before the 
Bank’s ALCO for perusal and review. As per RBI guidelines, the Bank is required to maintain a minimum of 100% of 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio, which was applicable for all the quarters for the financial years ending on 31 March, 2025 and 
31 March, 2024.
	
All significant outflows and inflows determined in accordance with RBI guidelines are included in the prescribed LCR 
computation template.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
364
Quantitative disclosure
(` in crores)
Quarter ended 31 March, 2025
 Quarter ended  31 December, 2024
Quarter ended 30 September, 2024
Quarter ended 30 June, 2024
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid 
Assets (HQLAs)
 299,977.69
294,959.58
282,668.50
268,095.26
Cash Outflows
2
Retail Deposits and 
deposits from small 
business customers, of 
which:
 610,744.17
 56,940.49
606,354.20
53,737.15
596,714.54
52,748.26
587,857.21
51,956.74
(i) 	
Stable Deposits
 82,678.53
 4,133.93
137,965.45
6,898.27
138,463.84
6,923.19
136,579.64
6,828.98
(ii)	
Less Stable Deposits
 528,065.64
 52,806.56
468,388.75
46,838.87
458,250.70
45,825.07
451,277.56
45,127.76
3
Unsecured wholesale 
funding, of which :
 305,685.55
 1,79,597.15
295,120.79
173,029.00
291,319.65
173,208.78
290,454.26
158,852.28
(i)	
Operational deposits 
(all counterparties)
 -
 -
-
-
-
-
21,290.02
5,317.34
(ii)	
Non-operational 
deposits (all 
counterparties)
 305,685.55
 1,79,597.15
295,120.79
173,029.00
291,319.65
173,208.78
269,164.24
153,534.94
(iii)	
Unsecured debt
 -
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Secured wholesale funding
115.36
0.53
8.70
0.16
5
Additional requirements, 
of which
 69,054.62
 55,942.12
64,569.90
51,748.96
65,556.63
53,341.67
60,386.61
47,581.30
(i)	
Outflows related to 
derivative exposures 
and other collateral 
requirements
 51,694.26
 51,694.26
47,934.96
47,934.96
49,652.28
49,652.28
44,102.31
44,102.31
(ii)	
Outflows related to 
loss of funding on 
debt products
 -
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	
Credit and liquidity 
facilities
 17,360.36
 4,247.86
16,634.94
3,814.00
15,904.36
3,689.39
16,284.30
3,478.99
6
Other contractual funding 
obligations
 32,563.04
 32,563.04
33,882.50
33,882.50
30,155.32
30,155.32
21,747.07
21,747.07
7
Other contingent funding 
obligations
 606,855.74
 25,854.97
583,076.18
24,912.00
579,719.15
24,955.40
575,087.14
24,771.04
8
Total Cash Outflows
351,013.14
337,310.13
334,418.13
304,908.59
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending (eg. 
reverse repo)
 922.50
 -
851.25
-
10,711.10
2.75
1,475.84
9.61
10
Inflows from fully 
performing exposures
 76,519.90
 50,176.02
70,375.55
46,142.74
65,847.29
44,446.28
61,175.32
42,782.03
11
Other cash inflows
 49,495.45
 49,495.45
45,919.08
45,919.08
46,681.80
46,681.80
41,220.83
41,220.83
12
Total Cash Inflows
 126,937.86
 99,671.48
117,145.88
92,061.82
123,240.18
91,130.82
103,871.99
84,012.48
Total adjusted Value
Total adjusted Value
Total adjusted Value
Total adjusted Value
13
Total HQLA
 2,99,977.69
294,959.58
282,668.50
268,095.26
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
 2,51,341.66
245,248.32
243,287.31
220,896.11
15
Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio %
119.35%
120.27%
116.19%
121.37%
Notes:
1)	
Average for all the quarters is simple average of daily observations for the quarter
2)	
Classification of inflows and outflows for determining the run off factors is based on the same estimates and assumptions 
as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, which has been relied upon by the auditors

Standalone financial statements
365
(` in crores)
Quarter ended 31 March, 2024
 Quarter ended 31 December, 2023
Quarter ended 30 September, 2023
Quarter ended 30 June, 2023
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid 
Assets (HQLAs)
257,647.25
245,836.91
235,198.34
240,413.24
Cash Outflows
2
Retail Deposits and 
deposits from small 
business customers, of 
which:
571,214.14
50,722.98
559,872.28
49,816.42
543,488.15
48,356.65
526,601.89
46,836.33
(i) 	
Stable Deposits
127,968.66
6,398.43
123,416.11
6,170.81
119,843.26
5,992.16
116,477.17
5,823.86
(ii)	
Less Stable Deposits
443,245.48
44,324.55
436,456.18
43,645.62
423,644.89
42,364.49
410,124.72
41,012.47
3
Unsecured wholesale 
funding, of which :
275,937.28
152,249.29
251,237.97
139,062.99
234,086.49
130,927.24
240,504.95
133,888.82
(i)	
Operational deposits 
(all counterparties)
19,031.73
4,733.33
17,015.14
4,244.66
17,101.37
4,254.22
17,841.65
4,438.56
(ii)	
Non-operational 
deposits (all 
counterparties)
256,905.55
147,515.96
234,222.83
134,818.32
216,985.12
126,673.02
222,663.30
129,450.27
(iii)	
Unsecured debt
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Secured wholesale funding
0.16
0.92
6.19
-
5
Additional requirements,
of which
76,437.80
64,770.09
82,451.37
57,343.97
71,631.86
47,677.58
62,144.71
44,118.50
(i)	
Outflows related to 
derivative exposures 
and other collateral 
requirements
62,335.88
62,335.88
52,911.31
52,911.31
41,192.60
41,192.60
39,251.27
39,251.27
(ii)	
Outflows related to 
loss of funding on 
debt products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	
Credit and liquidity 
facilities
14,101.92
2,434.22
29,540.06
4,432.66
30,439.25
6,484.98
22,893.44
4,867.23
6
Other contractual funding 
obligations
22,021.52
22,021.52
22,977.91
22,977.91
21,302.66
21,302.66
21,141.20
21,141.20
7
Other contingent funding 
obligations
561,581.08
24,169.90
582,296.48
25,414.33
574,170.17
25,279.25
550,788.51
24,143.81
8
Total Cash Outflows
313,933.95
294,616.55
273,549.57
270,128.66
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending (eg. 
reverse repo)
1,608.98
4.93
783.35
-
157.68
-
1,397.60
-
10
Inflows from fully 
performing exposures
59,522.69
41,963.41
55,392.83
38,854.52
52,414.98
36,786.50
54,147.66
39,051.75
11
Other cash inflows
59,337.83
59,337.83
49,632.69
49,632.69
38,274.21
38,274.21
36,264.68
36,264.68
12
Total Cash Inflows
120,469.50
101,306.17
105,808.87
88,487.21
90,846.86
75,060.71
91,809.94
75,316.43
Total adjusted Value
Total adjusted Value
Total adjusted Value
Total adjusted Value
13
Total HQLA
257,647.25
245,836.91
235,198.34
240,413.24
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
212,627.78
206,129.33
198,488.86
194,812.23
15
Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio %
121.17%
119.26%
118.49%
123.41%
 Notes:
1)	
Average for all the quarters is simple average of daily observations for the quarter
2)	
Classification of inflows and outflows for determining the run off factors is based on the same estimates and assumptions 
as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, which has been relied upon by the auditors

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
366
1.3	 Investments
	
Effective 1 April, 2024, the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Investment Direction 2023. 
Figures for the previous year are therefore not comparable on account of the above and the disclosures made hereinafter 
for the previous year ended 31 March, 2024 are based on the erstwhile framework for investments as then applicable.
a)	
Disclosure of carrying value of investments and fair value
As at 31 March, 2025 	
(` in crores)
 Particulars
Held to Maturity (HTM)
Available 
for Sale
(AFS)
Fair Value through Profit 
& Loss
(FVTPL)
Subsidiaries, Associates 
& JVs
At cost
Fair Value
Held for 
trading
(HFT)
Non- Held 
for Trading
(Non-HFT)
At cost
Fair Value
I. 	
Investments in India
	
(i) 	
Government securities
258,551.22
262,382.28
13,314.05
20,774.97
-
	
(ii) 	 Other approved securities
-
-
-
-
-
	
(iii) 	 Shares
-
--
-
1,827.19
770.20
	
(iv) 	 Debentures and Bonds
2,460.00
2,503.77
16,883.39
48,794.98
5,082.96
	
(v) 	 Subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures
6,492.69
	
(vi) 	 Others1
-
-
4,246.54
124.35
1,311.71
Total
261,011.22
264,886.05
34,443.98
71,521.49
7,164.88
6,492.69
Less: Provisions for impairment / Non-
Performing Investments (NPI)
-
-
(261.95)
(27.33)
(0.33)
-
Net
261,011.22
264,886.05
34,182.03
71,494.16
7,164.55
6,492.69
II. 	
Investments outside India
	
(i) 	
Government securities 
(including local authorities)
-
-
15,435.26
-
-
	
(ii) 	 Subsidiaries and joint 
ventures
3.02
	
(iii) 	 Others1
-
-
-
353.79
244.38
Total
-
-
15,435.26
353.79
244.38
3.02
Less: Provisions for impairment / Non-
Performing Investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
(239.31)
-
Net
-
-
15,435.26
353.79
5.07
3.02
Total investments (I+II)
261,011.22
264,886.05
49,617.29
71,847.95
7,169.62
6,495.71
	
1.	
“Others” under Investments in India include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds, Venture 
Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts, Pass Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP) 
and “Others” under Investments outside India include investments in Equity Shares and Bonds.
	
Composition of Investments
As at 31 March, 2024 	
(` in crores)
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others1
Total 
Investments in 
India
Government 
Securities 
(including local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others1
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Held to Maturity
Gross
203,117.90
-
-
8,209.83
2,923.17
-
214,250.90
-
332.30
-
332.30
214,583.20
Less: Provision for 
non-performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
203,117.90
-
-
8,209.83
2,923.17
-
214,250.90
-
332.30
-
332.30
214,583.20
Available for Sale
Gross
27,065.36
-
1,789.26
35,881.05
-
4,659.29
69,394.96
9,339.05
-
487.70
9,826.75
79,221.71
Less: Provision for 
non-performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
(27.81)
(510.18)
-
-
(537.99)
-
-
(243.96)
(243.96)
(781.95)

Standalone financial statements
367
As at 31 March, 2024 	
(` in crores)
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others1
Total 
Investments in 
India
Government 
Securities 
(including local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others1
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Provision for 
depreciation
-
-
(55.97)
(399.90)
-
(52.27)
(508.14)
-
-
(0.82)
(0.82)
(508.96)
Net
27,065.36
-
1,705.48
34,970.97
-
4,607.02
68,348.83
9,339.05
-
242.92
9,581.97
77,930.80
Held for Trading
Gross
8,211.30
-
-
30,672.91
-
46.23
38,930.44
82.81
-
-
82.81
39,013.25
Less: Provision for 
non-performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision for 
depreciation
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
8,211.30
-
-
30,672.91
-
46.23
38,930.44
82.81
-
-
82.81
39,013.25
Total Investments
Gross
238,394.56
-
1,789.26
74,763.79
2,923.17
4,705.52
322,576.30
9,421.86
332.30
487.70
10,241.86
332,818.16
Less: Provision for 
non-performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
(27.81)
(510.18)
-
-
(537.99)
-
-
(243.96)
(243.96)
(781.95)
Provision for 
depreciation
-
-
(55.97)
(399.90)
-
(52.27)
(508.14)
-
-
(0.82)
(0.82)
(508.96)
Net
238,394.56
-
1,705.48
73,853.71
2,923.17
4,653.25
321,530.17
9,421.86
332.30
242.92
9,997.08
331,527.25
	
1.	
“Others” under Investments in India include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds, Venture 
Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts, Pass Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP) 
and “Others” under Investments outside India include investments in Equity Shares and Bonds.
b)	
Movement of Provisions for Depreciation and Investment Fluctuation Reserve
(` in crores)
 Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
A
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investment
Opening Balance
508.95
959.71
Add: Provisions made during the year
30.62
Less: Transfer to General Reserve
(508.95)
Less: Write off/ write back of excess provisions during the year
(481.38)
Closing Balance
-
508.95
B
Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR)
Opening Balance
2,661.00
1,782.00
Add : Amount transferred during the year
248.00
879.00
Less : Drawdown
-
-
Closing Balance
2,909.00
2,661.00
C
Closing Balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and 
FVTPL category (net of provision for non-performing investments)
2.26%
N.A.
Closing Balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and 
HFT category (net of provision for depreciation and provision for non-performing 
investments)
N.A.
2.28%
c)	
Net gains/ (losses) on Level 3 financial instruments recognised in AFS-Reserve and Profit and Loss account
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
Recognised in AFS-Reserve
19.41
Recognised in Profit and Loss Account
266.18

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
368
d)	
Sale and transfers to/from HTM category
	
i.	
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the value of sales/transfers of securities to/from 
HTM category (excluding one-time transfer of securities, additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted 
by RBI and sales to RBI under Open Market Operations (OMO)/Government Securities Acquisition Programme 
(GSAP)/Conversion/Switch auctions) did not exceed 5% of the book value of investments held in HTM category at 
the beginning of the year.
	
	
Details of sales made out of HTM are set out below:
(` in crores)
 Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
A
Opening carrying value of securities in HTM
 205,756.12
212,049.99
B
Carrying value of all HTM securities sold during the year
 18,119.90
 11,044.48
C
Less: Carrying values of securities sold under situations exempted from 
regulatory limit
 12,474.97
 2,454.28
D
Carrying value of securities sold (D=B-C)
 5,644.93
 8,590.20
E
Securities sold as a percentage of opening carrying value of securities in HTM 
(E=D÷A)
 2.74%
 4.05%
Amount transferred to Capital Reserve in respect of HTM securities which 
were sold at a gain
 214.35
 139.55
e)	
Non-SLR investment portfolio
	
i)	
Movement in non-performing non SLR investments is set out below:
(` in crores)
 Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening balance
782.08
1,585.14
Additions during the year1
31.69
25.92
Reductions during the year
(284.85)
(828.98)
Closing balance
528.92
782.08
Total provisions held (including provision in respect of Interest Capitalisation – 
Restructured NPA accounts)
528.92
782.08
	
	
1.	
includes impact of exchange rate fluctuation
	
ii)	
Issuer composition Non-SLR investments*:
As at 31 March, 2025	
(` in crores)
No.
Issuer
Total 
Amount
Extent of 
private
placement
Extent of “below 
investment 
grade” securities
Extent of 
“unrated” 
securities
Extent of 
“unlisted” 
securities
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
i.
Public Sector Units
3,019.90
2,321.09
84.73
-
172.73
ii.
Financial Institutions
35,773.94
29,424.57
69.73
-
1.86
iii.
Banks
16,917.14
14,268.46
-
-
14.79
iv.
Private Corporates
20,454.59
17,886.66
294.02
103.37
4,412.76
v.
Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associate
6,495.71
5,921.75
-
-
6,000.71
vi.
Others
20,873.58
5,440.05
-
-
5,315.65
vii.
Mark-to-market gain/(loss) recognised over 
book value of the investments
495.61
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
viii
Provision held towards non performing 
investments
 (528.92)
 N.A.
 N.A.
 N.A.
 N.A.
Total
103,501.55
75,262.58
448.48
103.37
15,918.50
	
	
Amounts reported under columns (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.

Standalone financial statements
369
As at 31 March, 2024	
(` in crores)
No.
Issuer
Total 
Amount
Extent of 
private
placement
Extent of “below 
investment 
grade” securities
Extent of 
“unrated” 
securities
Extent of 
“unlisted” 
securities
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
i.
Public Sector Units
13,927.33
11,499.70
84.70
-
2,050.00
ii.
Financial Institutions
16,550.58
15,038.16
77.00
-
-
iii.
Banks
11,665.29
10,121.96
-
-
-
iv.
Private Corporates
34,897.54
29,322.00
620.53
144.60
4,823.48
v.
Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures
3,255.47
3,255.47
-
-
3,255.47
vi.
Others
14,127.38
4,705.52
-
-
4,593.39
vii.
Provision held towards depreciation on 
investments
(508.95)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
viii
Provision held towards non performing 
investments
(781.95)
 N.A.
 N.A.
 N.A.
 N.A.
Total
93,132.69
73,942.79
782.23
144.60
14,722.33
	
	
Amounts reported under columns (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.
	
	
*excludes investments in non-SLR government securities amounting to `5,000.00 (previous year `5,000.00)
f)	
Repo Transactions
	
Details of securities sold/purchased under repos/reverse repos including LAF and MSF transactions (including Triparty 
repos and repos under Targeted Long Term Repo Operations):
Year ended 31 March, 2025	
(` in crores)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily Average 
outstanding 
during the year
As at
31 March, 2025
Securities sold under repos (In face value terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
42,425.12
10,096.98
-
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
1,040.00
173.83
640.00
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities sold under repos (In market value terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
42,583.71
10,131.41
-
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
1,040.62
172.41
631.69
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In face value 
terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
27,622.73
3,564.37
4,403.71
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
35.00
0.51
-
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In market value 
terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
27,066.15
3,516.25
4,460.50
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
34.62
0.50
-
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
	
There have been no defaults in making the same set of securities available at the time of 2nd leg settlement of the Term 
Reverse Repo during the year ended 31 March, 2025.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
370
Year ended 31 March, 2024	
(` in crores)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily Average 
outstanding 
during the year
As at
31 March, 2024
Securities sold under repos (In face value terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
34,189.72
12,581.10
-
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
310.00
4.39
-
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities sold under repos (In market value terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
33,922.17
12,479.19
-
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
307.39
4.34
-
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In face value 
terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
16,740.68
989.14
6,111.57
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
-
-
-
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse repos (In market value 
terms)
i.	
Government Securities
-
15,968.42
979.39
6,096.22
ii.	
Corporate debt Securities
-
-
-
-
iii.	
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
	
There have been no defaults in making the same set of securities available at the time of 2nd leg settlement of the Term 
Reverse Repo during the year ended 31 March, 2024.
g)	
Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions (in market value terms)
Year ended 31 March, 2025	
(` in crores)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
Total volume 
of transactions 
during the year
As at
31 March, 2025
Securities lent through GSL transactions
-
-
-
-
-
Securities 
borrowed 
through 
GSL 
transactions
-
-
-
-
-
Securities placed as collateral under GSL 
transactions
-
-
-
-
-
Securities received as collateral under 
GSL Transactions
-
-
-
-
-
Year ended 31 March, 2024	
(` in crores)
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
Total volume 
of transactions 
during the year
As at
31 March, 2024
Securities lent through GSL transactions
-
-
-
-
-
Securities 
borrowed 
through 
GSL 
transactions
-
-
-
-
-
Securities placed as collateral under GSL 
transactions
-
-
-
-
-
Securities received as collateral under 
GSL Transactions
-
-
-
-
-

Standalone financial statements
371
h)	
Securities kept as margin (in face value terms)
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
i.
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a)	
Collateral and funds management - Member Common Collateral
5,700.00
4,000.00
b)	
Collateral and funds management - Tri-party Repo
53,150.00
47,350.00
c)	
Default fund - Forex Forward segment
219.00
97.00
d)	
Default fund - Forex Settlement segment
47.00
37.65
e)	
Default fund - Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment
44.40
30.55
f)	
Default fund - Securities segment
16.10
9.30
g)	
Default fund - Tri-party repo segment
5.50
6.60
ii.
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a)	
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
45,730.41
49,046.92
b)	
Repo constituent
65,003.10
50,494.12
iii.
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards various segment
125.35
1,202.55
iv.
Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation of India (ICCL) towards 
capital market
 5.50
 5.50
Total
170,046.36
152,280.19
1.4	 Asset Quality
a)	
i) 	
Movement in gross non-performing assets is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Advances
Investments
Total
Gross NPAs as at the beginning of the year
 14,345.04
 782.08
15,127.12
Intra Category Transfer
(34.31)
34.31
-
Additions (fresh NPAs) during the year1
19,476.28
 (2.62)
19,473.66
Sub-total (A)
33,787.01
813.77
34,600.78
Less:-
(i) 	
Upgradations
(4,617.70)
(8.88)
(4,626.58)
(ii)	
Recoveries (excluding recoveries made from upgraded 
accounts)2
(3,401.73)
(250.09)
(3,651.82)
(iii) 	 Technical/Prudential Write-offs3
(6,798.43)
(25.88)
(6,824.31)
(iv) 	 Write-offs other than those under (iii) above
(5,007.96)
 -
 (5,007.96)
Sub-total (B)
(19,825.82)
(284.85)
(20,110.67)
Gross NPAs as at the end of the year (A-B)
13,961.19
 528.92
 14,490.11
	
	
1.	
includes impact of exchange rate fluctuation
	
	
2.	
includes recoveries from sale of NPAs
	
	
3.	
represents cases where the non-performing assets remain outstanding at borrowers’ loan account level but are written-off (fully 
or partially) by the Bank only for accounting purposes, without involving any waiver of claims against the borrower, and without 
prejudice to the recovery of the same

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
372
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Advances
Investments
Total
Gross NPAs as at the beginning of the year
17,019.09
1,585.14
18,604.23
Intra Category Transfer
-
-
-
Additions (fresh NPAs) during the year
14,404.64
25.92
14,430.56
Sub-total (A)
31,423.73
1,611.06
33,034.79
Less:-
(i) 	
Upgradations
(6,022.19)
(108.78)
(6,130.97)
(ii)	
Recoveries (excluding recoveries made from upgraded 
accounts)1
(2,710.47)
(201.32)
(2,911.79)
(iii) 	 Technical/Prudential Write-offs2
(5,548.66)
(420.24)
(5,968.90)
(iv) 	 Write-offs other than those under (iii) above
 (2,797.37)
(98.64)
(2,896.01)
Sub-total (B)
(17,078.69)
(828.98)
(17,907.67)
Gross NPAs as at the end of the year (A-B)
 14,345.04
 782.08
15,127.12
	
	
1.	
includes recoveries from sale of NPAs
	
	
2.	
represents cases where the non-performing assets remain outstanding at borrowers’ loan account level but are written-off (fully 
or partially) by the Bank only for accounting purposes, without involving any waiver of claims against the borrower, and without 
prejudice to the recovery of the same
	
ii) 	
Movement in provisions for non-performing assets is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Advances
Investments
Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year
11,094.32
782.08
11,876.40
Intra-Category Transfer
(27.33)
27.33
-
Provisions made during the year
12,140.26
(1.73)
12,138.53
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
15.43
(4.64)
10.79
Transfer from restructuring provision
-
-
-
Provision in respect of Interest Capitalisation – Restructured 
NPA Accounts
(21.56)
(0.13)
(21.69)
Write-offs/(write back) of excess provision
(12,928.63)
(273.99)
(13,202.62)
Closing balance at the end of the year
10,272.49
528.92
10,801.41
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Advances
Investments
Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year
13,579.98
1,465.33
15,045.31
Intra-Category Transfer
-
-
-
Provisions made during the year
6,320.51
50.54
6,371.05
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
21.62
(10.46)
11.16
Transfer from restructuring provision
-
-
-
Provision in respect of Interest Capitalisation – Restructured 
NPA Accounts
(118.51)
(14.27)
(132.78)
Write-offs/(write back) of excess provision
(8,709.28)
(709.06)
(9,418.34)
Closing balance at the end of the year
11,094.32
782.08
11,876.40

Standalone financial statements
373
	
iii) 	 Movement in net non-performing assets is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Advances
Investments
Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year
3,247.47
 -
 3,247.47
Intra-Category Transfer
(6.98)
6.98
-
Additions during the year
7,336.02
(0.89)
7,335.13
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
(15.43)
4.64
(10.79)
Reductions during the year
(6,897.19)
(10.86)
(6,908.05)
Floating provisions
-
-
-
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured NPA Accounts
 21.56
 0.13
 21.69
Closing balance at the end of the year
3,685.45
 -
3,685.45
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Advances
Investments
Total
Opening balance at the beginning of the year
3,439.11
119.81
3,558.92
Intra-Category Transfer
-
-
-
Additions during the year
8,084.13
(24.62)
8,059.51
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
(21.62)
10.46
(11.16)
Reductions during the year
(8,369.41)
(119.92)
(8,489.33)
Floating Provision
(3.25)
-
(3.25)
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured NPA Accounts
 118.51
 14.27
 132.78
Closing balance at the end of the year
3,247.47
 -
 3,247.47
	
iv) 	 Classification of advances and provisions held
For the year 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub-
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-
Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
961,820.91
5,212.30
3,888.71
5,244.03
14,345.04
976,165.95
Inter-Category transfer from/(to) 
Investments
(34.31)
Add: Additions during the year
19,476.28
Less: Reductions during the year*
(19,825.82)
Closing Balance
10,37,125.87
7,685.65
3,388.53
2,887.01
13,961.19
10,51,087.06
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
 i) 	
Upgradation
(4,617.70)
 ii) 	
Recoveries (excluding recoveries from 
upgraded accounts)1
(3,401.73)
 iii) 	 Technical/Prudential Write-offs
(6,798.43)
 iv) 	 Write-offs other than (iii) above2
(5,007.96)
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions) 3
Opening Balance of Provisions held
4,900.10
2,891.08
2,959.21
5,244.03
11,094.32
15,994.42
Inter category transfer from/(to) Investments
(27.33)
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
12,140.26
Add: Provision in respect of Interest 
Capitalisation – Restructured NPA Accounts
(21.56)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
15.43
Transfer from restructuring provision
-
Less: Excess Provision reversed/ Write-off 
loans
(12,928.63)
Closing Balance of Provisions held
4,950.06
4,752.34
2,633.14
2,887.01
10,272.49
15,222.55

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
374
For the year 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub-
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-
Performing 
Advances
Net NPAs
Opening Balance (excluding floating 
provision)
2,321.22
929.50
-
3,250.72
Less: Floating provision
(3.25)
Inter category transfer from/(to) Investments
(6.98)
Add: Fresh Additions during the year
7,336.02
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured NPA 
Accounts
21.56
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
(15.43)
Less: Reductions during the year
(6,897.19)
Closing Balance
2,933.31
755.39
-
3,685.45
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
3.25
Add: Additional provisions made during the 
year
-
Less: Amount of drawn down during the 
year
-
Closing Balance of Floating provisions
3.25
Technical write-offs and recoveries made 
thereon (includes advances, investments 
and others)
Opening balance of Technical/Prudential 
written-off accounts
39,683.15
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs during 
the year
6,824.31
Add: Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
161.10
Less: Recoveries made from previously 
technical/ prudential written-off accounts 
during the year
(2,338.50)
Less: Accounts upgraded pursuant to 
implementation of resolution plan (change 
in ownership)
-
Less: Sacrifice made from previously 
technical/ prudential written-off accounts 
during the year
(1,512.42)
Closing Balance
42,817.64
	
	
1.	
includes `678.23 crores recovered in the form of Government guaranteed Security Receipts allotted by National Asset 
Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL).
	
	
2.	
including sale of NPAs
	
	
3.	
including provision in respect of Interest Capitalization - Restructured Accounts, in respect of NPA accounts amounting to `7.47 
crores which is not recognized as income as per RBI guidelines
For the year 31 March, 2024
(` in crores)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub-
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-
Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
841,866.98
3,888.81
7,223.19
5,907.09
17,019.09
858,886.07
Inter-Category 
transfer 
from/(to) 
Investments
-
Add: Additions during the year
14,404.64
Less: Reductions during the year*
(17,078.69)
Closing Balance
961,820.91
5,212.30
3,888.71
5,244.03
14,345.04
976,165.95
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
	
i)	
Upgradation
(6,022.19)

Standalone financial statements
375
For the year 31 March, 2024
(` in crores)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub-
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-
Performing 
Advances
	
ii)	
Recoveries 
(excluding 
recoveries 
from 
upgraded 
accounts)
(2,710.47)
	
iii)	
Technical/Prudential 
Write-
offs
(5,548.66)
	
iv)	
Write-offs other than (iii) 
above1
(2,797.37)
Provisions (excluding Floating 
Provisions) 2
Opening Balance of Provisions held
7,815.83
2,000.81
5,672.08
5,907.09
13,579.98
21,395.81
Inter 
category 
transfer 
from/(to) 
Investments & Others
-
Add: Fresh provisions made during the 
year
6,320.51
Add: Provision in respect of Interest 
Capitalisation 
– 
Restructured 
NPA 
Accounts
(118.51)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
21.62
Transfer from restructuring provision
-
Less: Excess Provision reversed/ Write-
off loans
(8,709.28)
Closing Balance of Provisions held3
4,900.10
2,891.08
2,959.21
5,244.03
11,094.32
15,994.42
Net NPAs
Opening Balance
1,888.00
1,551.11
-
3,439.11
Less: Floating provision
(3.25)
Add: Fresh Additions during the year
8,084.13
Interest Capitalisation – Restructured 
NPA Accounts
118.51
Effect of exchange rate fluctuation 
(21.62)
Less: Reductions during the year
(8,369.41)
Closing Balance
2,321.22
929.50
-
3,247.47
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
3.25
Add: Additional provisions made during 
the year
-
Less: Amount of drawn down during the 
year
-
Closing Balance of Floating provisions
3.25
Technical write-offs and recoveries 
made thereon (includes advances, 
investments and others)
Opening 
balance 
of 
Technical/
Prudential written-off accounts
38,015.30
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs 
during the year
5,968.90
Add: Effect of exchange rate fluctuation
96.02
Less: Recoveries made from previously 
technical/ 
prudential 
written-off 
accounts during the year4
(2,234.76)

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
376
For the year 31 March, 2024
(` in crores)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub-
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-
Performing 
Advances
Less: Accounts 
upgraded 
pursuant 
to implementation of resolution plan 
(change in ownership)
(29.82)
Less: Sacrifice made from previously 
technical/ 
prudential 
written-off 
accounts during the year
(2,132.49)
Closing Balance
39,683.15
	
	
1.	
including sale of NPAs
	
	
2.	
including provision in respect of Interest Capitalization - Restructured Accounts, in respect of NPA accounts amounting to `29.03 
crores which is not recognized as income as per RBI guidelines
	
	
3.	
During the year, the Bank has reclassified provision of `3,130.18 crores on loans under moratorium as per RBI guidelines on 
COVID-19 regulatory package from provision for standard advances  to provision for other contingencies. [Refer note 2.10(c)] 
	
	
4.	
including recoveries amounting to `122.42 crores in the form of Security Receipts allotted during the year.
	
v)	
Key NPA Ratios
(in percent)
Sr. 
No.
Ratios
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
i.
Gross non-performing advances to Gross Advances
1.33%
1.47%
ii.
Net non-performing advances to Net Advances
0.35%
0.34%
iii.
Provision Coverage ratio for non-performing assets (including prudential write 
offs)
93.56%
94.07%
iv.
Gross non-performing assets as a percentage of gross customer assets1
1.28%
1.43%
v.
Net non-performing assets as a percentage of net customer assets1
0.33%
0.31%
	
	
1.	
Customer assets include advances and credit substitutes
b)	
Sector-wise advances
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Sector
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross NPAs
% of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
Outstanding
Total
Advances
Gross NPAs
%
of Gross
NPAs to
Total
Advances
in that sector
A
Priority Sector
1
Agriculture and allied 
activities
106,466.79
3,202.46
3.01%
104,540.94
2,107.09
2.02%
2
Advances to industries 
sector eligible as priority 
sector lending
80,987.30
1,199.64
1.48%
81,590.66
977.10
1.20%
-Chemical & Chemical products
8,243.76
54.70
0.66%
9,345.37
52.30
0.56%
-Basic Metal & Metal Products
9,983.85
168.39
1.69%
9,035.68
134.07
1.48%
-Infrastructure
4,578.05
43.00
0.94%
5,917.81
35.97
0.61%
3
Services
72,647.23
739.53
1.02%
64,883.44
713.20
1.10%
-Banking and Finance other 
than NBFCs and MFs
702.57
-
-
1,255.74
-
-
-Non-banking financial 
companies (NBFCs)
2,566.05
-
-
86.66
18.08
20.87%
-Commercial Real Estate
13,343.06
6.55
0.05%
11,779.11
5.74
0.05%

Standalone financial statements
377
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Sector
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross NPAs
% of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
Outstanding
Total
Advances
Gross NPAs
%
of Gross
NPAs to
Total
Advances
in that sector
-Trade
30,092.16
365.64
1.22%
27,314.45
446.22
1.63%
4
Personal loans
128,922.81
2,091.27
1.62%
120,871.21
1,343.83
1.11%
-Housing*
70,255.25
533.03
0.76%
67,473.59
532.61
0.79%
-Vehicle Loans
29,816.43
862.75
2.89%
27,853.49
556.97
2.00%
Sub-total (A)
389,024.13
7,232.90
1.86%
371,886.25
5,141.22
1.38%
B
Non Priority Sector
1
Agriculture 
and 
allied 
activities
1,218.14
25.65
2.11%
3,243.90
0.13
0.00%#
2
Industry
157,758.27
1,938.95
1.23%
151,929.11
4,253.11
2.80%
-Chemical 
& 
Chemical 
products
18,900.84
21.07
0.11%
17,721.74
31.95
0.18%
-Basic Metal & Metal Products
19,386.11
35.79
0.18%
16,652.69
148.46
0.89%
-Infrastructure
49,327.99
526.30
1.07%
55,954.12
1,721.93
3.08%
3
Services
148,632.26
853.17
0.57%
126,030.23
2,161.10
1.71%
-Banking and Finance other 
than NBFCs and MFs
28,244.41
-
-
25,880.77
0.83
0.00%#
-Non-banking 
financial 
companies (NBFCs)
39,094.69
30.86
0.08%
28,779.50
57.94
0.20%
-Commercial Real Estate
23,739.19
170.82
0.72%
23,213.92
418.99
1.80%
-Trade
30,444.48
189.21
0.62%
24,888.47
631.75
2.54%
4
Personal loans
354,454.26
3,910.52
1.10%
323,076.46
2,789.48
0.86%
-Housing*
166,409.09
823.07
0.49%
159,144.53
746.30
0.47%
-Vehicle Loans
31,212.93
997.37
3.20%
29,421.67
598.50
2.03%
Sub-total (B)
662,062.93
6,728.29
1.02%
604,279.70
9,203.82
1.52%
Total (A+B)
1,051,087.06
13,961.19
1.33%
976,165.95
14,345.04
1.47%
	
* includes loans against property 
	
# less than 0.005%
	
Classification of advances into respective sectors is based on Sector wise Industry Bank Credit return as submitted to RBI.
	
Figures in italics represent sub-sectors where the outstanding advance exceeds 10% of total outstanding advance to that sector.
c)	
Amount of total assets, non-performing assets and revenue of overseas branches is given below
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Total assets1
56,531.95
51,542.99
Total NPAs (Gross)
654.98
1,521.03
Total NPAs (Net)
-
-
Total revenue1
3,321.20
3,068.79
	
1.	
Represents total assets and total revenue of foreign operations (refer note no. 2.4 of  Schedule 18 on information about business and 
geographical segments)
d)	
Particulars of resolution plan and restructuring
	
i)	
Disclosure with regard to implementation of resolution plan as required under RBI circular dated 7 June, 2019 for 
Resolution of Stressed Assets:

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
378
	
	
As on/for the year ended 31 March, 2025
( ` in crores)
Particulars
Resolution plan 
implemented during 
the year
Resolution plan not 
implemented within 
specified timelines as on 
31 March, 2025
No. of borrowers1
3
16
Fund and non-fund based outstanding as on 31 March, 20252
58.57
950.81
Additional provisions held as per RBI guidelines
-
90.40
	
	
1.	
includes prudentially written-off accounts and accounts settled pursuant to implementation of resolution plan
	
	
2.	
excluding fund based outstanding for prudentially written off cases and outstanding in equity shares
	
	
As on/for the year ended 31 March, 2024
( ` in crores)
Particulars
Resolution plan 
implemented during 
the year
Resolution plan not 
implemented within 
specified timelines as on 
31 March, 2024
No. of borrowers1
2
25
Fund and non-fund based outstanding as on 31 March, 20242
102.37
2,513.58
Additional provisions held as per RBI guidelines
-
120.73
	
	
1.	
includes prudentially written-off accounts and accounts settled pursuant to implementation of resolution plan
	
	
2.	
excluding fund based outstanding for prudentially written off cases and outstanding in equity shares

Standalone financial statements
379
	
ii)	
Details of accounts subjected to restructuring1,2,3,4
( Numbers/` in crores)
Agriculture and allied 
activities
Corporate (excluding 
MSME)
Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises 
(MSME)5
Retail (excluding 
agriculture and MSME)
Total
As on 31 
March, 
2025
As on 31 
March, 
2024
As on 31 
March, 
2025
As on 31 
March, 
2024
As on 31 
March, 
2025
As on 31 
March, 
2024
As on 31 
March, 
2025
As on 31 
March, 
2024
As on 31 
March, 
2025
As on 31 
March, 
2024
Standard
Number of 
borrowers*
23
52
2
1
789
1,004
1,180
1,624
1,994
2,681
Gross amount
4.44
4.33
68.21
30.75
150.06
258.51
86.71
127.49
309.42
421.08
Provision held
0.22
0.22
3.41
1.54
43.98
74.94
4.34
6.37
51.95
83.07
Sub-
standard
Number of 
borrowers*
33
4
-
-
28
174
242
59
303
237
Gross amount
4.29
0.78
-
-
7.73
31.45
24.64
5.12
36.66
37.35
Provision held
1.29
0.23
-
-
1.78
16.30
14.38
4.54
17.45
21.07
Doubtful
Number of 
borrowers*
30
9
7
3
9,303
9,809
18
282
9,358
10,103
Gross amount
10.40
0.58
43.99
75.07
47.65
71.41
12.77
14.90
114.81
161.96
Provision held
8.84
0.43
27.92
68.16
40.75
50.76
11.69
13.06
89.20
132.40
Loss
Number of 
borrowers*
2
3
4
4
-
13
8
9
14
29
Gross amount
0.23
0.11
124.25
123.49
-
6.54
0.61
2.29
125.09
132.43
Provision held6
0.23
0.11
122.92
119.45
-
6.40
0.61
2.29
123.76
128.25
Total
Number of 
borrowers*
88
68
13
8
10,120
11,000
1,448
1,974
11,669
13,050
Gross amount
19.36
5.80
236.45
229.31
205.44
367.91
124.73
149.80
585.98
752.82
Provision held6
10.58
0.99
154.25
189.14
86.51
148.41
31.02
26.26
282.36
364.80
	
	
* while reporting number of borrowers, restructured accounts of same borrowers under different category are reported only 
under one category
	
	
1.	
Excludes prudentially written-off accounts
	
	
2.	
Excludes accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19 related stress as per RBI 
circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution Framework 2.0). [Refer note 18 (1.4) (h)]
	
	
3.	
Includes accounts where restructuring is implemented under RBI circular for Resolution of Stressed Assets (excluding cases of 
change in ownership)
	
	
4.	
Includes compromise settlement accounts treated as restructuring pursuant to RBI guidelines on “Framework for Compromise 
Settlements and Technical Write offs” where the time for payment of agreed settlement amount exceeds three months
	
	
5.	
Includes Zero MSME borrower accounts restructured under RBI guidelines of January, 2019 amounting to Nil (Previous year Zero 
accounts amounting ` Nil)
	
	
6.	
Excluding balance outstanding in Sundries Account (Interest Capitalization - Restructured Accounts), in respect of NPA accounts 
which is not recognized as income as per RBI guidelines
e)	
Divergence in asset classification and provisioning
	
In terms of RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning 
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements. The disclosure 
is required if either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for NPAs assessed 
by RBI exceeds 5% of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period and (b) the 
additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5% or 10% of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference 
period ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023 respectively. 
	
Based on the above, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is required with 
respect to RBI’s annual supervisory process for the year ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
380
f)	
Disclosure on transfer of loan exposures
	
i)	
Details of loans not in default acquired and transferred during the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 
2024 under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposure dated 24 September, 2021 are given below :
	
a)	
Details of loans not in default acquired from other entities:
(` in crores)
Particulars
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Corporate
Retail
Corporate
Retail
Mode of acquisition
Assignment 
Assignment
Assignment and 
Novation
Assignment
Aggregate Principal outstanding of 
loans acquired
706.30
127.05
1,192.18 
800.56 
Weighted average residual maturity
7.73 years
6.29 years
9.35 years
13.60 years
Weighted average holding period
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Retention of beneficial economic 
interest by the originator
N.A.
10%
N.A.
10%
Coverage of tangible security (for 
secured loans)
83% secured
Weighted average 
LTV ~35%
100% secured
Weighted average 
LTV ~47%
Rating-wise1 distribution of loans 
acquired by value
-	
A- and above
97%
N.A.
62%
N.A.
-	
BBB and BBB+
3%
N.A.
29%
N.A.
-	
SME -3
-
N.A.
9%
N.A.
	
	
1.	
Represents internal rating
	
b)	
Details of loans not in default transferred to other entities:
(` in crores)
Particulars
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Corporate
Retail
Corporate
Retail
Mode of transfer
Assignment and 
Novation
-
Assignment and 
Novation
-
Aggregate Principal outstanding of 
loans acquired
16,072.15
-
12,308.62
-
Weighted average residual maturity
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Weighted average holding period 
(for assignment transactions)
0.58 years
-
0.87 years
-
Retention of beneficial economic 
interest
Nil
-
Nil
-
Coverage of tangible security (for 
secured loans)
100% secured
-
94% secured
-
Rating-wise1 distribution of loans 
transferred by value
-	
A- and above
78%
N.A.
96%
N.A.
-	
BBB+
22%
N.A.
4%
N.A.
	
	
1.	
Represents internal rating 
	
	
There are no agreements to replace loans transferred to transferees or pay damages arising from any representations 
or warranty for any of the loans transferred during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024.
	
ii)	
Details of stressed loans acquired and transferred during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024 
under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposure dated 24 September, 2021 are given below:
	
a)	
The Bank has not acquired any stressed loans (NPA and SMA accounts) during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 
31 March, 2024.

Standalone financial statements
381
	
b)	
Details of stressed loans transferred (excluding prudentially written off accounts):
	
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
To ARCs
To permitted 
transferees 
To other transferees 
NPA
SMA
NPA
SMA
NPA
SMA
No. of accounts
5
-
1
-
-
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (on 
the date of transfer)
1,284.76
-
225.00
-
-
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred
N.A.
-
N.A.
-
-
-
Net book value of the loans transferred (at the time of 
transfer)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Aggregate consideration*
1,479.76 
-
0.00**
-
-
-
Excess provision reversed to the profit and loss account
1,127.49
-
-
-
-
-
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
	
* represents sum of cash plus redemption value of security receipts received
	
	
** amount less than `50,000/-
	
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2024
(` in crores)
To ARCs
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
NPA
SMA
NPA
SMA
NPA
SMA
No. of accounts
3
-
-
-
1
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (on the 
date of transfer)
423.72
-
-
-
11.56
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred
N.A.
-
-
-
N.A.
-
Net book value of the loans transferred (at the time of 
transfer)
-
-
-
-
8.64
-
Aggregate consideration
235.00 
-
-
-
9.40
-
Excess provision reversed to the profit and loss account
235.00
-
-
-
0.76
-
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
iii)	
During year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank has been alloted Security Receipts amounting to `1,215.47 crores 
pursuant to transfer of certain stressed loans to asset reconstruction companies.         
	
	
Details on recovery ratings assigned to Security Receipts as on 31 March, 2025:
(` in crores)
Recovery ratings
Anticipated recovery as per recovery rating %
Net Book value
Redemption value
RR+
187%
-
2.52
RR1
121%
17.09
17.09
RR1
127%
45.02
45.02
RR2
90%
3.56
3.56
RR2
77%
16.62
16.62
RR1
150%
40.13
40.13
Yet to be rated1
513.73
1,050.97
Yet to be rated1
164.50
164.50
Total
800.65
1,340.41
	
	
1.	
Recent purchase whose statutory period has not elapsed

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
382
	
	
During year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank has been allotted Security Receipts amounting to `128.45 crores 
pursuant to transfer of certain stressed loans to asset reconstruction companies. Details on recovery ratings 
assigned to Security Receipts as on 31 March, 2024:
(` in crores)
Recovery ratings 
Anticipated recovery as per recovery rating
Net Book value
Redemption value
Yet to be rated1
-
128.45
Total
-
128.45
	
	
1.	
Recent purchase whose statutory period has not elapsed	
g)	
Disclosure on provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts
(` in crores)
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March, 2025
For the year ended
31 March, 2024
Number of frauds reported during the year 1,2,3
19,625
33,005
Amounts involved net of recoveries/write-offs during the year 1,2,3
490.49
260.50
Provisions held at the beginning of the year
51.59
23.30
Provisions made during the year
307.41
74.05
Balance held in interest capitalisation accounts
-
-
Provisions held at the end of the year
359.01
97.35
Unamortised provision debited from ‘other reserves’ as at the end of the year
     -
-
	
1.	
Includes 17,281 cases of frauds amounting to `124.35 crores (previous year 32,068 cases of  `158.96 crores), relating to digital payment 
related transactions 
	
2.	
In respect of frauds related to advances, the Bank undertakes 100% provisioning of the outstanding amount once the borrower account 
is classified as fraud in line with RBI guidelines. In respect of other frauds, provision is made where the claim has been admitted and 
the Bank is under an obligation to settle the same. In all other cases declared as fraud but where claim is not admitted, no provision is 
required to be made. The number of frauds reported during the year include 96 cases (excluding cases covered under note 1 above) 
amounting to `7.13 crores where claim has not been admitted by the Bank (previous year 584 cases amounting to ` 4.19 crores)
	
3.	
Excluding 316 cases of advances (previous year 15 cases) amounting to `409.48 crores (previous year `22.76 crores) reported as fraud 
during the FY 2024-25 and which are prudentially written off as on 31 March, 2025.
h)	
Disclosure under Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress
	
For the year ended on 31 March, 2025 
	
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19 
related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution 
Framework 2.0) during the half year ended 30 September, 2024:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
Position as at 
31 March, 2024 (A)1
Of (A), aggregate 
debt that slipped 
into NPA during H1 
FY25
Of (A) amount 
written off 
during 
H1 FY25
Of (A) 
amount paid by 
the borrowers 
during 
H1 FY252
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
Position as at 
30 September, 20241
Personal Loans3
1,330.90
47.61
2.04
120.32
1,160.93
Corporate persons
197.15
-
-
37.76
159.39
  Of which, MSMEs
-
-
-
-
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1,528.05
47.61
2.04
158.08
1,320.32
	
	
1.	 Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
	
	
2.	 Represents net movement in balance outstanding
	
	
3.	 Personal loans represent retail advances

Standalone financial statements
383
	
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19 
related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution 
Framework 2.0) during the half year ended 31 March, 2025:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of resolution 
plan – Position as at 
30 September, 2024 (A)1
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during
H2 FY25
Of (A) amount 
written off 
during H2 
FY25
Of (A) amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during
H2 FY252
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of resolution 
plan – Position as at
31 March, 20251
Personal Loans3
1,160.93
23.73
2.94
112.96
1,021.30
Corporate persons
159.39
-
-
(27.99)
187.38
	 Of which, MSMEs
-
-
-
-
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1,320.32
23.73
2.94
84.97
1,208.68
	
1.	
Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
	
2.	
Represents net movement in balance outstanding
	
3.	
Personal loans represent retail advances
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
	
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for 
COVID-19 related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) during the half year ended 
30 September, 2023:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of resolution 
plan – Position as at 31 March, 
2023 (A)1
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during 
H1 FY24
Of (A) amount 
written off 
during 
H1 FY24
Of (A) 
amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during 
H1 FY242
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – Position 
as at 
30 September, 20231
Personal Loans3
 1,834.67 
84.69
29.24
184.53
1,536.21
Corporate persons
 211.94 
-
-
(7.50)
219.44
  Of which, MSMEs
 - 
-
-
-
-
Others
 - 
-
-
-
-
Total
 2,046.61 
84.69
29.24
177.03
1,755.65
	
1.	
Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
	
2.	
Represents net movement in balance outstanding
	
3.	
Personal loans represent retail advances
	
Movement in position of accounts where resolution plan is implemented under RBI Resolution Framework for COVID-19 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
384
related stress as per RBI circular dated 6 August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5 May, 2021 (Resolution 
Framework 2.0) during the half year ended 31 March, 2024:
(` in crores except number of accounts)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to implementation 
of resolution plan – Position 
as at 
30 September, 2023 (A)1
Of (A), aggregate 
debt that slipped 
into NPA during 
H2 FY24
Of (A) amount 
written off 
during H2 FY24
Of (A) amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during 
H2 FY242
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
Position as at 
31 March, 20241
Personal Loans3
1,536.21
53.97
3.54
147.80
1,330.90
Corporate persons
219.44
7.54
-
14.75
197.15
  Of which, MSMEs
-
-
-
-
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1,755.65
61.51
3.54
162.55
1,528.05
	
1.	
Represents fund based outstanding balance of standard accounts
	
2.	
Represents net movement in balance outstanding
	
3.	
Personal loans represent retail advances
i)	
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024 none of the loans and advances held at overseas branches 
of the Bank have been classified as NPA by any host banking regulator for reasons other than record of recovery.
1.5	 Exposures
a)	
Exposure to Real Estate sector
(` in crores)
Category
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
1)
Direct Exposure
(i)	
Residential mortgages
	
(Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be 
occupied by the borrower or that is rented. Exposure also includes non-fund 
based (NFB) limits)
	
217,344.83
212,548.30
	
- of which housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector advances
56,083.46
58,915.62
(ii)	
Commercial real estate
71,495.88
66,800.56
	
[Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estate (office building, retail 
space, multipurpose commercial premises, multifamily residential buildings, 
multi tenanted commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, 
land acquisition, development, and construction etc.) where the prospects for 
repayment and recovery depend primarily on the cashflows generated by the 
assets and also includes housing loans extended towards third dwelling unit. 
Exposures include NFB limits.]
(iii)	
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised 
exposures - 
	
a.	
Residential
-
-
	
b.	
Commercial real estate
-
-
2)
Indirect Exposure
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and 
Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
17,482.70
25,373.33
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector
306,323.41
304,722.19

Standalone financial statements
385
b)	
Exposure to Capital Market
(` in crores)
Category
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
1.
Direct investments in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures and 
units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively invested 
in corporate debt1
4,576.42
4,043.27
2.
Advances against shares/bonds/debentures or other securities or on clean basis 
to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs/ESOPs), convertible bonds, 
convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented mutual funds
11.61
11.71
3.
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security
2,675.40
2,268.93
4.
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral security of 
shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented 
mutual funds i.e. where primary security other than shares/convertible bonds/
convertible debentures/units of equity-oriented mutual funds does not fully cover 
the advances
100.30
3,435.34
5.
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on behalf of 
stockbrokers and market makers
34,114.15
17,276.97
6.
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares/bonds/debentures or 
other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity of 
new companies in anticipation of raising resources
16.90
178.37
7.
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows/issues
51.04
8.72
8.
Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or 
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual funds
-
-
9.
Financing to stock brokers for margin trading
-
-
10.
All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and unregistered) including 
capital contribution to LLP
413.04
517.99
Total exposure to Capital Market (Total of 1 to 10)
41,958.86
27,741.30
	
1.	
excludes investment in equity shares on account of conversion of debt into equity as part of restructuring amounting to `210.76 crores 
as on 31 March, 2025 (previous year `196.33 crores) which are exempted from exposure to Capital Market
c)	
Details of Risk Category wise Country Exposure
(` in crores)
Risk Category1
Exposure (Net) as at 
31 March, 2025
Provision Held as at 
31 March, 2025
Exposure (Net) as at 
31 March, 2024
Provision Held as at 
31 March, 2024
Insignificant
-
-
-
-
Low
26,770.15
44.14
26,657.10
33.57
Moderate 
692.33
-
1,849.10
-
High
32.75
-
1,040.76
-
Very High
45.46
-
514.37
-
Restricted
0.15
-
-
-
Off-Credit
0.01
-
-
-
Total
27,540.85
44.14
30,061.33
33.57
	
1.	
Risk categorization is based on the methodology as internally adopted by the Bank
d)	
Unsecured Advances
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Total unsecured advances of the Bank
282,660.38
290,227.80
Out of the above, amount of advances for which intangible securities such as charge over the 
rights, licenses, authority, etc. have been taken
-
-
Estimated value of such intangible securities
-
-

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
386
e)	
Factoring Exposures
	
As on 31 March, 2025, exposures under factoring stood at `16,497.03 crores (previous year `13,166.02 crores). 
f)	
Disclosure on Intra-Group Exposures1
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Total amount of intra-group exposures
18,360.20
18,121.66
Total amount of top-20 intra-group exposures
18,360.09
18,121.61
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the Bank on borrowers/customers
1.01
1.10
	
1.	
Exposure includes credit exposure (funded and non-funded), derivative exposure, investment exposure (including underwriting and 
similar commitments) and deposits placed for meeting shortfall in Priority Sector Lending
	
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the intra-group exposures were within the limits specified by RBI.
	
The above information is as certified by the Management and relied upon by the auditors.
g)	
Unhedged foreign currency exposures
	
The Bank has laid down the framework to manage credit risk arising out of unhedged foreign currency exposures of the 
borrowers. Both at the time of initial approval as well as subsequent reviews/renewals, the assessment of credit risk 
arising out of foreign currency exposure of the borrowers include details of imports, exports, repayments of foreign 
currency borrowings, as well as hedges done by the borrowers or naturally enjoyed by them vis-a-vis their intrinsic 
financial strength, history of hedging and losses arising out of foreign currency volatility. The extent of hedge/cover 
required on the total foreign currency exposure including natural hedge and hedged positions, is guided through a matrix 
of internal ratings. The hedging policy is applicable for existing as well as new clients with foreign currency exposures 
above a predefined threshold. The details of unhedged foreign currency exposure of customers for transactions 
undertaken through the Bank are monitored periodically. The Bank also maintains additional provision and capital, in 
line with RBI guidelines.
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening provision held as at 1st April
411.31
309.64
Provision transferred on acquisition of Citibank India consumer business
-
10.10
Provision released during the year
(54.74)
91.57
Cumulative provision held as at 31st March 
356.57
411.31
Incremental capital held as at 31st March
1,562.07
1,449.22
1.6	 Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
a)	
Concentration of deposits
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors
113,671.66
90,901.54
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits 
9.69
8.51
b) 
Concentration of advances1
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers
150,927.19
126,509.96
Percentage of advances to twenty largest borrowers to total advances  
8.63
7.97
	
1.	
Advances represent credit exposure (funded and non-funded) including derivative exposure as defined by RBI

Standalone financial statements
387
c) 
Concentration of exposures1
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers/customers
166,227.48
134,583.49
Percentage of exposures to twenty largest borrowers/customers to total exposure on 
borrowers/customers
9.17
8.16
	
	
1.	 Exposure includes credit exposure (funded and non-funded), derivative exposure, investment exposure (including underwriting and 
similar commitments) and deposits placed for meeting shortfall in Priority Sector Lending
d) 
Concentration of NPAs
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Total exposure to the top twenty NPA accounts1
2,817.52
5,430.04
Percentage exposures of the twenty largest NPA exposures to total gross NPAs2
17.48
31.07
	
1.	
Represents fund based and non-fund based outstanding and non-performing investments 
	
2.	
Percentage is computed based on outstanding of top twenty NPA accounts (excluding non-fund based outstanding)  to gross NPAs
1.7	 Derivatives
a)	
Disclosure in respect of Interest Rate Swaps (‘IRS’), Forward Rate Agreement (‘FRA’) and Cross Currency Swaps (‘CCS’) 
outstanding is set out below:
	
An ‘IRS’ is a financial contract between two parties exchanging or swapping a stream of interest payments for a 
‘notional principal’ amount on multiple occasions during a specified period. The Bank deals in interest rate benchmarks 
like Mumbai Inter-Bank Offered Rate (MIBOR), Indian Government Securities Benchmark Rate (INBMK), Modified 
MIFOR and Alternative Reference Rates (ARR) of various currencies. Pursuant to RBI guidelines on Roadmap for LIBOR 
transition all new deals are being offered on Modified MIFOR and ARR interest rates benchmarks as published by the 
regulators of respective currencies. 
	
A ‘FRA’ is a financial contract between two parties to exchange interest payments for ‘notional principal’ amount on 
settlement date, for a specified period from start date to maturity date. Accordingly, on the settlement date cash 
payments based on contract rate and the settlement rate, which is the agreed bench-mark/reference rate prevailing on 
the settlement date, are made by the parties to one another. The benchmark used in the FRA contracts of the Bank is 
Bond/ARR of various currencies. 
	
A ‘CCS’ is a financial contract between two parties exchanging interest payments and principal, wherein interest 
payments and principal in one currency would be exchanged for an equally valued interest payments and principal in 
another currency.
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Items
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at 
31 March, 2024
i)
Notional principal of swap agreements
1,236,207.65
778,852.15
ii)
Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfill their obligations 
under the agreements
8,390.76
9,187.39
iii)
Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps 
3,093.63
2,439.19
iv)
Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps
Maximum single industry exposure with Banks (previous year with Banks)
7,911.76
8,977.79
v)
Fair value of the swap book (hedging & trading)
382.48
165.69

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
388
	
The nature and terms of the IRS as on 31 March, 2025 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Hedging
1
743.63
SOFR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
5
767.85
ESTR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading 
7
581.47
EURIBOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
11,661
409,717.24
MIBOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
5
92.41
MIOIS
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
740
58,890.24
Modified MIFOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
24
10,092.82
TBILL
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
429.48
TONAR(JPY)
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1,016
85,592.41
SOFR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
5
669.95
ESTR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
7
1,538.42
EURIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
3
550.00
INBMK
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
12,378
414,899.02
MIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
6
344.51
MIOIS
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
599
47,167.76
Modified MIFOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
24
9,707.97
TBILL
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
7
1,100.04
TONAR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1,165
99,395.94
SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
28
15,204.99
SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
        1
644.63
ESTR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
27,863
1,158,130.78
	
The nature and terms of the IRS as on 31 March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
7
513.62
EURIBOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
7,338
228,274.50
MIBOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
2
62.36
MIOIS
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
746
58,192.64
MOD MIFOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
328
50,562.53
SOFR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
3.25
SONIA
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
4
621.95
ESTR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
77.10
TONAR (JPY)
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
8
3,738.06
TBILL
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
8
1,840.64
EURIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
4
650.00
INBMK
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
7,338
241,972.21
MIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
507
38,579.07
MOD MIFOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
456
65,991.05
SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1
105.03
SONIA
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
5
158.07
TONAR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
3
317.72
ESTR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
7
421.50
MIOIS
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
40
20,582.72
SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
629.14
ESTR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
16,805
713,293.15

Standalone financial statements
389
	
The nature and terms of the FRA as on 31 March, 2025 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
251
6,401.93
BOND
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
251
6,401.93
	
The nature and terms of the FRA as on 31 March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
181
5,068.17
BOND
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
181
5,068.17
	
	
The nature and terms of the CCS as on 31 March, 2025 are set out below: 
(` in crores)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
139
24,339.23
Not Applicable
Fixed Payable v/s Fixed Receivable
Trading
3
55.17
SARON
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
22.10
EURIBOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
34.69
TBILL
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
18.94
TONAR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
62
20,551.47
SOFR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
2
36.21
SARON
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
15
353.67
EURIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1
213.69
MIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1
427.38
TBILL
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
56
11,752.93
SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1
15.47
ESTR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1
322.31
SOFR/EURIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
3
782.77
SOFR/ESTR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
3
538.49
SOFR/MIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
2
527.18
SOFR/TONAR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
68.38
MIBOR/SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
13
1,713.77
MODMIFOR/SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
2
270.76
TONAR/SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
19
8,540.00
Not Applicable
Fixed Receivable
Trading
22
1,090.33
Not Applicable
Fixed Payable
     349
71,674.94

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
390
	
The nature and terms of the CCS as on 31 March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crores)
Nature
Nos.
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
131
21,995.08
Not Applicable
Fixed Payable v/s Fixed Receivable
Trading
3
65.43
SARON
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
15
879.16
EURIBOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
42.88
TBILL
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
1
22.22
TONAR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
66
12,303.60
SOFR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating Payable
Trading
3
65.43
SARON
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
17
807.92
EURIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1
208.51
MIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
1
22.22
TONAR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
52
11,481.39
SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Fixed Payable
Trading
4
1,033.59
SOFR/ESTR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
4
1,478.67
SOFR/EURIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
3
525.45
SOFR/MIBOR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
3
646.51
SOFR/ TONAR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
4
1,306.33
EURIBOR/ SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
1
66.72
MIBOR/SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
16
2,297.81
MODMIFOR/SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
2
312.89
TONAR/SOFR
Floating Receivable v/s Floating  Payable
Trading
29
4,005.04
Not Applicable
Fixed Receivable
Trading
6
923.99
Not Applicable
Fixed Payable
363
60,490.84
b)	
Exchange Traded Interest Rate Derivatives
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2025 
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
i)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives undertaken during the year
US 2 years Note - June 2024
196.59
US 5 years Note  - June 2024
17.95
US 10 years Note - June 2024
23.93
US 10 years Note - September 2024
119.67
US 5 years Note - December 2024
68.38
US 10 years Note - December 2024
51.29
US 5 years Note - March 2025
68.38
US 10 years Note - March 2025
51.28
US 2 years Note - June 2025
581.23
US 5 years Note - June 2025
  239.33
1,418.03

Standalone financial statements
391
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
ii)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on  
31 March, 2025
-
iii)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on  
31 March, 2025 and “not highly effective”
N.A.
iv)
Mark-to-market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on 31 March, 2025 
and “not highly effective”
N.A.
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2024  
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2024
i)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives undertaken during the year
US 2 years Note - June 2023
642.22
US 5 years Note  - June 2023
456.23
US 10 years Note - June 2023
121.77
US 2 years Note - September 2023
393.77
US 5 years Note - September 2023
170.15
US 10 years Note - September 2023
85.07
US 2 years Note  - December 2023
233.53
US 5 years Note - December 2023
106.76
US 10 years Note - December 2023
60.05
US 2 years Note - March 2024
417.03
US 5 years Note - March 2024
101.75
US 10 years Note - March 2024
46.71
US 2 years Note - June 2024
191.83
US 5 years Note - June 2024
17.52
US 10 years Note - June 2024
23.53
3,067.64
ii)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on  
31 March, 2024
US 2 years Note  - June 2024
191.83
US 5 years Note  - June 2024
17.52
US 10 years Note - June 2024
   23.35
 232.70
iii)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on  
31 March, 2024 and “not highly effective”
N.A.
iv)
Mark-to-market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding as on 31 March, 2024 
and “not highly effective”
N.A.
c.	
Disclosure on risk exposure in Derivatives
	
Qualitative disclosures:
	
(a)	
Structure and organisation for management of risk in derivatives trading, the scope and nature of risk 
measurement, risk reporting and risk monitoring systems, policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and 
strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants:

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
392
	
	
Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from an underlying asset, or from interest 
and exchange rates or indices. The Bank undertakes Over the Counter (OTC) and Exchange Traded derivative 
transactions for Balance Sheet management and also for proprietary trading/market making whereby the Bank 
offers OTC derivative products to the customers to enable them to hedge their interest rate and currency risks 
within the prevalent regulatory guidelines. 
	
	
Proprietary trading includes Exchange Traded Currency Options, Interest Rate Futures, Currency Futures and 
Rupee Interest Rate Swaps under different benchmarks (viz. MIBOR, Modified MIFOR, LIBOR, ARR and INBMK), 
Currency Options, Currency Swaps and Non Deliverable derivatives. The Bank also undertakes transactions 
in Cross Currency Swaps, Principal Only Swaps, Coupon Only Swaps, Currency Options, Interest Rate Swaps, 
Exotic Derivatives and Long Term Forex Contracts (LTFX) for hedging its Balance Sheet and also offers them 
to its customers. These transactions expose the Bank to various risks, primarily credit, market, legal, reputation 
and operational risk. The Bank has adopted the following mechanism for managing risks arising out of the 
derivative transactions.
	
	
There is a functional separation between the Treasury Front Office, Treasury Mid Office and Treasury Back Office 
to undertake derivative transactions. The customer and interbank related derivative transactions are originated 
by Derivative sales and Treasury Front Office team respectively which ensures compliance with the trade 
origination requirements as per the Bank’s policy and the RBI guidelines. The Market Risk Group within the Bank’s 
Risk Department independently identifies, measures and monitors the market risks associated with derivative 
transactions and apprises the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) and the Risk Management Committee 
of the Board (RMC) on the compliance with the risk limits. The Treasury Back Office undertakes activities such as 
trade validation, confirmation, settlement, ISDA and related documentation, post deal documentation, accounting, 
valuation and other MIS reporting.
	
	
The derivative transactions are governed by the Derivative policy, Suitability and Appropriateness Policy 
for derivative products, Market Risk Management policy, Hedging policy and the Asset Liability Management 
(ALM) policy of the Bank as well as by the extant RBI guidelines. The Bank has implemented policy on customer 
suitability & appropriateness to ensure that derivatives transactions entered into are appropriate and suitable 
to the customer. The Bank has put in place a detailed process flow on documentation for customer derivative 
transactions for effective management of operational/reputation/compliance risk.
	
	
Various risk limits are set up and actual exposures are monitored vis-à-vis the limits allocated. These limits are set 
up taking into account market volatility, risk appetite, business strategy and management experience. Risk limits 
are in place for risk parameters viz. PV01, VaR, Stop Loss, Delta, Gamma and Vega. Actual positions are monitored 
against these limits on a daily basis and breaches, if any, are dealt with in accordance with board approved Risk 
Appetite Statement. Risk assessment of the portfolio is undertaken periodically. The Bank ensures that the Gross 
PV01 (Price value of a basis point) position arising out of all non-option rupee derivative contracts are within 
0.25% of net worth of the Bank as on Balance Sheet date.
	
	
Hedging transactions are undertaken by the Bank to protect the variability in the fair value or the cash flow of the 
underlying Balance Sheet item. These transactions are tested for hedge effectiveness and in case any transaction 
fails the test, the same is re-designated as a trading deal and appropriate accounting treatment is followed.
	
(b)	
Accounting policy for recording hedge and non-hedge transactions, recognition of income, premiums and 
discounts, valuation of outstanding contracts
	
	
Derivative transactions comprise of forward contracts, swaps, FRAs, futures and options which are disclosed as 
contingent liabilities. These are categorised as trading or hedge transactions.
	
	
Trading derivative contracts are revalued based on actual traded and/or derived from curves published by external 
market sources or FBIL with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive MTM) and in other liabilities (representing negative 
MTM) on a gross basis. The premium on option contracts is accounted for as per FEDAI guidelines.
	
	
The Hedging Policy of the Bank governs the use of derivatives for hedging purpose. Subject to the prevailing RBI 
guidelines, the Bank deals in derivatives for hedging fixed rate and floating rate coupon or foreign currency assets/
liabilities. Transactions for hedging and market making purposes are recorded separately. 

Standalone financial statements
393
	
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading (including funding swaps), that are entered into to 
establish the amount of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are 
outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. The premium or discount 
arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line basis as expense or 
income over the life of the contract.
	
	
For hedge transactions through other derivatives, the Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at 
the inception of transaction itself. The effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge and 
periodically thereafter. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and 
hedged items are recognized in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges, the change in fair 
value of hedging instrument for the effective portion is recognised in Schedule 2- ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under 
‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’ and the ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, in an effective hedging 
relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
	
Derivative transactions are covered under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master 
agreements with respective counterparties. The exposure on account of derivative transactions is computed as 
per the RBI guidelines and is marked against the Loan Equivalent Risk (LER) limits approved for the respective 
counterparties.
	
(c)	
Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
	
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines, any receivables (crystallised receivables and positive MTM) under derivatives 
contracts, which remain overdue for more than 90 days, are reversed through the Profit and Loss Account and are 
held in a separate Suspense account.  
	
	
Collateral requirements for derivative transactions are laid down as part of credit sanction terms on a case by case 
basis. Such collateral requirements are determined, based on usual credit appraisal process. The Bank retains the 
right to terminate transactions as a risk mitigation measure in certain cases.
	
	
The credit risk in respect of customer derivative transactions is sought to be mitigated through a laid down policy 
on sanction of Loan Equivalent Risk (LER) limits, monitoring mechanism for LER limits and trigger events for 
escalation/margin calls/termination.
	
Quantitative disclosure on risk exposure in derivatives1:
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at 31 March, 2025
Currency Derivatives
Interest rate 
Derivatives
Forward 
Contracts4
CCS
Options
Total
1
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a)	
For hedging 
27,881.14
-
-
27,881.14
743.63
b)	
For trading
1,228,707.33
71,674.94
133,300.09
1,433,682.36
1,163,789.08
2
Marked to Market Positions2,3
a)	
Asset (+)
-
286.64
85.96
372.60
95.84
b)	
Liability (-)
(107.97)
-
-
(107.97)
-
3
Credit Exposure3
37,215.37
7,807.39
4,181.19
49,203.95
17,506.59
4
Likely impact of one percentage change in 
interest rate (100*PV01)  
(as at 31 March, 2025)
a)	
on hedging derivatives 
3.08
-
-
3.08
26.48
b)	
on trading derivatives
43.47
235.89
9.48
288.84
1,027.00
5
Maximum and Minimum of 100*PV01 
observed during the year
a)	
on hedging 
	
i)	
Minimum
0.19
-
-
0.19
26.48

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
394
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at 31 March, 2025
Currency Derivatives
Interest rate 
Derivatives
Forward 
Contracts4
CCS
Options
Total
	
ii)	
Maximum
7.08
-
-
7.08
26.48
b)	
on Trading 
	
i)	
Minimum
12.70
12.19
3.82
28.71
601.36
	
ii)	
Maximum
43.47
235.89
9.65
289.01
1,027.00
	
1.	
only Over The Counter derivatives included
	
2.	
represents net position
	
3.	
includes accrued interest
	
4.	
excluding Tom/Spot contracts
(` in crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at 31 March, 2024
Currency Derivatives
Interest rate 
Derivatives
Forward 
Contracts4
CCS
Options
Total
1
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a)	
For hedging 
34,073.74
-
-
34,073.74
-
b)	
For trading
806,312.94
60,490.84
41,979.66
908,783.44
718,361.32
2
Marked to Market Positions2,3
a)	
Asset (+)
-
-
74.39
74.39
239.98
b)	
Liability (-)
(624.82)
(73.69)
-
(698.51)
-
3
Credit Exposure3
22,671.78
7,396.52
1,399.28
31,467.58
13,868.89
4
Likely impact of one percentage change in 
interest rate (100*PV01)  
(as at 31 March, 2024)
a)	
on hedging derivatives 
2.31
-
-
2.31
-
b)	
on trading derivatives
10.23
45.37
7.20
62.80
382.83
5
Maximum and Minimum of 100*PV01 
observed during the year
a)	
on hedging 
	
i)	
Minimum
-
-
-
-
-
	
ii)	
Maximum
3.09
-
-
3.09
-
b)	
on Trading 
	
i)	
Minimum
7.92
45.37
7.20
60.49
232.07
	
ii)	
Maximum
14.01
214.04
17.75
245.80
433.23
	
1.	
only Over The Counter derivatives included
	
2.	
only on trading derivatives and represents net position
	
3.	
includes accrued interest
	
4.	
excluding Tom/Spot contracts
	
The outstanding notional principal amount of Exchange Traded Interest Rate Futures as at 31 March, 2025 was `Nil 
crores (previous year `232.70 crores) and the mark-to-market value was  `Nil crores (previous year negative `0.33 crores).
	
The outstanding notional principal amount of Exchange Traded Currency Options as at 31 March, 2025 was `0.03 
crores (previous year `125.25 crores) and the mark-to-market value was  `Nil crores  (previous year `0.35 crores).
	
d)	
The Bank has not undertaken any transactions in Credit Default Swaps (CDS) during the year ended 
31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024.

Standalone financial statements
395
1.8	 Disclosures relating to securitisation
	
Details of securitisation transactions undertaken by the Bank under the RBI Master Direction on Securitisation of 
Standard Assets, 2021 are given below:
(` in crores)
Sr. No.
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
1
No. of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions originated by the Bank
-
-
2
Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs
-
-
3
Total amount of exposures retained by the Bank to comply with MRR as on the date 
of balance sheet
a)
Off-balance sheet exposures
First loss
-
-
Others
-
-
b)
On-balance sheet exposures
First loss
-
-
Others
-
-
4
Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than MRR
a)
Off-balance sheet exposures
i)
Exposure to own securitisations
First loss
-
 -
Others 
-
 -
ii)
Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss
-
 -
Others
-
 -
b)
On-balance sheet exposures
i)
Exposure to own securitisations
First loss
-
 -
Others
-
 -
ii)
Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss
-
 -
 
 
Others
-
 -
5
Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain/loss on sale on 
account of securitization
-
-
6
Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services provided by way of, liquidity 
support, post-securitisation assets servicing, etc. 
-
-
7
Performance of facility provided
a)
Amount paid
-
-
b)
Repayment received
-
-
c)
Outstanding amount
-
-
8
Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past
-
-
9
Amount and number of additional/ top up loan given on same underlying asset
-
-
10
Investor Complaints
a) 
Directly/indirectly received 
-
-
b)
Complaints outstanding
-
-

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
396
1.9	 The Bank has not sponsored any special purpose vehicle which is required to be consolidated in the consolidated 
financial statements as per accounting norms.
1.10	 Disclosure on transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund)
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
999.47
749.17
Add : Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year
321.40
288.44
Less : Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims1
(40.23)
(38.14)
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund2
1,280.64
999.47
	
	
1.	
excludes interest post transfer to DEA Fund
	
	
2.	
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund, as disclosed above, is also included under ‘Schedule-12- Contingent Liability 
- Other items for which Bank is contingently liable’
1.11	 Disclosure of customer complaints
a)	
Summary of information on complaints received by the Bank from customers and from Offices of Ombudsman (OBO)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Complaints received by the Bank from its customers
1.
Number of complaints pending at the beginning of the year
20,754
16,830
2.
Number of complaints received during the year
590,540
561,010
3.
Number of complaints disposed during the year
600,151
557,086
	
of 3, number of complaints rejected by the Bank
140,802*
71,063*
4.
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
11,143
20,754
Maintainable complaints received by the Bank from OBOs
5.
Number of maintainable complaints received by the Bank from OBOs
14,500
16,438
	
of 5, Number of complaints resolved in favour of the Bank by OBO’s 
7,569
15,352
 
of 5, Number of complaints resolved through conciliation/ mediation/ advisories 
issued by OBO’s 
6,928
1,086
 
of 5, Number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by OBO’s against the 
Bank
3**
-
6.
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those appealed)
-
-
	
* Overall cases rejected and subsequently referred to Internal Ombudsman for the year ended 31 March, 2025 were 754,281 (previous year 
251,777) which is aggregate of all interactions (includes Gross, Net & Other interaction types)
	
** Out of the 3 awards, 2 were issued and have since lapsed, while the remaining 1 award will be represented to Consumer Education and 
Protection Department (CEPD), RBI for further advise
b)	
Overall complaints summary for the financial years:
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
A.
Total number of complaints
1,099,448
1,220,500
B.
Complaints redressed by the Bank within one working day 
508,908
659,490
C.
Net reportable complaints (A - B)
590,540
561,010

Standalone financial statements
397
c)	
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
Grounds of complaints, (i.e. complaints 
relating to) 
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
received during 
the year
% increase/ 
decrease in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
end of the year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
Credit cards 
11,921
244,175
7%
3,251
488
Account opening/difficulty in operation 
of accounts 
2,885
91,914
(13%)
2,132
178
ATM/Debit cards
1,460
78,112
9%
1,103
103
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
953
48,389
38%
1,331
337
Loans and advances
1,260
34,657
(20%)
965
150
Others
2,275
93,293
22%
2,361
396
Total
20,754
590,540
5%
11,143
1,652
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Grounds of complaints, (i.e. complaints 
relating to) 
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
received during 
the year
% increase/ 
decrease in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over the 
previous year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
end of the year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
Credit cards 
6,715
228,285
(32%)
11,921
2,537
Account opening/difficulty in 
operation of accounts 
2,288
105,923
(33%)
2,885
445
ATM/Debit cards
2,282
71,895
(50%)
1,460
44
Loans and advances
830
43,304
(57%)
1,260
128
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
2,380
35,126
(70%)
953
198
Others
2,335
76,477
(14%)
2,275
338
Total
16,830
561,010
(41%)
20,754
3,690
	
The above disclosures do not include complaints redressed within 1 working day and are as certified by the Management 
and relied upon by the auditors.
1.12	Details of penalty/stricture levied by RBI
	
Details of penalty/stricture levied by RBI during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is as under:
Amount
(` in crores)
Reason for stricture issued/levy of penalty by RBI
Date of payment of penalty
1.91
Penalty imposed for non-compliance with provisions of Section 19 (1) (a) of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 and for non compliance with certain directions issued by RBI on 
‘Interest Rate on Deposits’, ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)’ and ‘Credit flow to agriculture- 
collateral free agricultural loans’.
12 September, 2024

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
398
	
Details of penalty/stricture levied by RBI during the year ended 31 March, 2024 is as under:
Amount
(` in crores)
Reason for stricture issued/levy of penalty by RBI
Date of payment of penalty
0.30
Penalty imposed for non-compliance with certain provisions of the RBI directions on 
‘Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning pertaining 
to Advances – Credit Card Accounts’
27 June, 2023
0.91
Penalty imposed for non-compliance with certain directions issued by RBI on ‘Reserve Bank 
of India (Know Your Customer (KYC)) Directions, 2016’, ‘Loans and Advances – Statutory 
and Other Restrictions’, ‘Guidelines on Managing Risks and Code of Conduct in Outsourcing 
of Financial Services by banks’ and ‘Code of Conduct for Opening and Operating Current 
Accounts’
17 November, 2023
1.13	 Disclosure on Remuneration
	
Qualitative disclosures 
	
a)	
Information relating to the composition and mandate of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
 
	
Name, composition and mandate of the main body overseeing remuneration:
	
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board oversees the framing, review and implementation of 
the compensation policy of the Bank on behalf of the Board. The Committee works in close co-ordination with the 
Risk Management Committee of the Bank, in order to achieve effective alignment between remuneration and risks.
	
	
As on 31 March, 2025, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprised of the following Non-
Executive Directors:
	
	
1.	
Smt. Meena Ganesh – Chairperson
	
	
2.	
Smt. Mini Ipe 
	
	
3.	
Shri Girish Paranjpe
	
	
4.	
Shri N.S. Vishwanathan
	
	
In respect of Remuneration/HR matters, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board, functions 
with the following main objectives:
	
	
a.	
Review and recommend to the Board for approval, the overall remuneration framework and associated 
policies of the Bank (including remuneration policy for Directors and Key Managerial Personnel) including 
the level and structure of fixed pay, variable pay, perquisites, bonus pool, stock-based compensation and any 
other form of compensation as may be included from time to time to all the employees of the Bank including 
the Managing Director & CEO (MD & CEO), other Whole-Time Directors (WTDs) and senior managers one 
level below the Board.
	
	
b.	
Recommend to the Board the compensation payable to the Chairman of the Bank.
	
	
c.	
Review and recommend to the Board for approval, the talent management and succession policy and process 
in the Bank for ensuring business continuity, especially at the level of MD & CEO, the other WTDs, senior 
managers’ one level below the Board and other key roles and their progression to the Board. 
	
	
d.	
Formulate the criteria and the manner for effective evaluation of performance of the Board as a whole, its 
Committees and individual directors, including independent directors of the Bank, which may be carried out 
either by the Committee or by the Board or with the help of an independent external agency and to review 
its implementation, compliance and outcomes. 
	
	
e.	
Review adequacy and appropriateness of HR strategy of the Bank in the broader areas of code of conduct, 
ethics, conflict of interest, succession planning, talent management, performance management, remuneration 
and HR risk management.

Standalone financial statements
399
	
	
f.	
Review and recommend to the Board for approval: 
 
 
 
	
the creation of new positions one level below MD & CEO
 
 
 
	
appointments, promotions and exits of senior managers one level below the MD & CEO
	
	
g.	
Set the goals, objectives and performance benchmarks for the Bank and for MD & CEO, WTDs and Group 
Executives for the financial year and over the medium to long term. 
	
	
h.	
Review the performance of the MD & CEO and other WTDs at the end of each year. 
	
	
i.	
Consider and approve the grant of Stock Options to the Managing Director & CEO, other Whole-Time 
Directors, Senior Management and other eligible employees of the Bank / subsidiary, in terms of the relevant 
provisions of the SEBI Regulations, as amended, from time to time.
	
	
j.	
Perform such other duties as may be required to be done under any law, statute, rules, regulations etc. 
enacted by Government of India, Reserve Bank of India or by any other regulatory or statutory body.
	
	
External consultants whose advice has been sought, the body by which they were commissioned, and in what 
areas of the remuneration process:
	
	
The Bank commissioned Aon Consulting Pvt. Limited (Aon), a globally renowned compensation benchmarking firm, 
to conduct market benchmarking of employee compensation. The Bank participates in the salary benchmarking 
survey conducted by Aon every year. Aon collects data from multiple private sector peer banks across functions, 
levels and roles which is then used by the Bank to assess market competitiveness of remuneration offered 
to employees.  
	
	
A description of the scope of the Bank’s remuneration policy, including the extent to which it is applicable to 
branches in India and overseas:
	
	
The Committee monitors the remuneration policy for both domestic and overseas branches of the Bank on behalf 
of the Board. However, it does not oversee the compensation policy for subsidiaries of the Bank.  
	
	
A description of the type of employees covered and number of such employees:
	
	
Employees 
are 
categorised 
into 
following 
three 
categories 
from 
remuneration 
structure 
and 
administration standpoint:
	
	
Category 1
	
	
MD & CEO and WTDs. This category includes 4* employees.
	
	
Category 2
	
	
All the employees in the Grade of Senior Vice President I and above engaged in the functions of Risk Control, 
Internal Audit and Compliance. This category includes 107* employees.
	
	
Category 3: Other Staff
	
	
‘Other Staff’ has been defined as a “group of employees whose actions have a material impact on the risk exposure 
of the Bank”. This category includes 25* employees.
	
	
*represents employees in these categories during the year FY 2024-25 including employees exited from the Bank 
during FY 2024-25.
	
b)	
Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and objectives 
of remuneration policy:
	
	
An overview of the key features and objectives of remuneration policy:
	
	
The compensation philosophy of the Bank aims to attract, retain and motivate professionals in order to enable the 
Bank to attain its strategic objectives and develop a strong performance culture in the competitive environment in 
which it operates. To achieve this, the following principles are adopted: 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
400
	
	
Affordability: Pay to reflect productivity improvements to retain cost-income competitiveness 
	
	
-	
Maintain competitiveness on fixed pay in talent market 
	
	
-	
Pay for performance to drive meritocracy through variable pay 
	
	
-	
Employee Stock Units (ESUs) and Employee Stock Options (ESOPs) for long-term value creation 
	
	
-	
Benefits and perquisites to remain aligned with market practices and provide flexibility
	
	
Apart from the above, the compensation structure for MD & CEO, WTDs, Material Risk Takers and employees 
at the grade of Senior Vice President and above within the Assurance functions at the Bank is aligned to RBI’s 
guidelines for sound compensation practices issued in November 2019 and addresses the general principles of: 
	
	
-	
Effective and independent governance and monitoring of compensation
	
	
-	
Alignment 
of 
compensation 
with 
prudent 
risk-taking 
through 
well 
designed 
and 
consistent 
compensation structures
	
	
-	
Clear and timely disclosure to facilitate supervisory oversight by all stakeholders
	
	
Accordingly, the compensation policy for MD & CEO and WTDs seeks to:
	
	
a)	
Ensure that the compensation, in terms of structure and total amount, is in line with the best practices, as well 
as competitive vis-à-vis that of peer banks
	
	
b)	
Establish the linkage of compensation with individual performance as well as achievement of the corporate 
objectives of the Bank
	
	
c)	
Include an appropriate variable pay component tied to the achievement of pre-established objectives in line 
with Bank’s scorecard while ensuring that the compensation is aligned with prudent risk taking
	
	
d)	
Encourage attainment of long term shareholder returns through inclusion of equity linked long-term incentives 
as part of compensation
	
	
Compensation is structured in terms of fixed pay, cash variable pay and share linked instruments (for selective 
employees), with a strong linkage of variable pay to performance. The remuneration policy of the Bank is approved 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Bank. Additional approval 
from Shareholders and RBI is obtained specifically for compensation of MD & CEO and WTDs.
	
	
Whether the remuneration committee reviewed the firm’s remuneration policy during the past year, and if so, an 
overview of any changes that were made:
	
	
The Bank’s remuneration policy was originally reviewed and approved by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Board of Directors in FY2021 in order to align with RBI guidelines. The remuneration policy of the 
Bank is reviewed annually and any changes arising therefrom are approved by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Board of Directors.
	
	
Key highlights of the policy are mentioned below:
	
	
•	
At least 50% of total compensation i.e. Fixed Pay plus Total Variable Pay shall be variable.
	
	
•	
Value of share linked instruments will be included in definition of ‘Total Variable Pay’
	
	
•	
‘Total Variable Pay’ for the MD & CEO/ Whole-time Directors/ Material Risk Takers of the Bank would be 
capped at 300% of Fixed Pay.	
	
	
•	
If the ‘Total Variable Pay’ is up to 200% of the Fixed Pay, a minimum of 50% of the Variable pay; and in case 
Variable Pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the Variable Pay shall be paid via employee stock options.
	
	
•	
Minimum 60% of the ‘Total Variable Pay’ shall be deferred over 3 years. If cash component is part of ‘Total 
Variable Pay’, at least 50% of the cash component of variable pay should also be deferred over 3 years. In 
cases where the cash component of Total Variable pay is under `. 25 lakh, variable pay shall not be deferred. 
	
	
•	
All the fixed items of compensation, including retiral benefits and perquisites, will be treated as part of Fixed Pay.

Standalone financial statements
401
	
	
•	
Qualitative and quantitative criteria defined for identification of Material Risk Takers (MRTs).
	
	
•	
Specific guidelines on application of malus and clawback clauses.
	
	
A discussion of how the Bank ensures that risk, internal audit and compliance employees are remunerated 
independently of the businesses they oversee:
	
	
The Bank ensures that risk, internal audit and compliance employees are remunerated independently of the 
businesses they oversee and is guided by the individual employee performance. The remuneration is determined 
on the basis of relevant risk measures included in the Balanced Scorecard / key deliverables of staff in these 
functions. The parameters reviewed for performance-based rewards are independent of performance of the 
business area they oversee and commensurate with their individual role in the Bank. Additionally, the ratio of fixed 
and variable compensation is weighed towards fixed compensation in case of employees in risk, internal audit, and 
compliance functions. 
c)	
Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration processes:
	
	
An overview of the key risks that the Bank takes into account when implementing remuneration measures:
	
	
The business activity of the Bank is undertaken within the limits of risk measures to achieve the financial plan. The 
Financial Perspective in the Bank’s Balanced Score Card (BSC) contains metrics pertaining to growth, profitability 
and asset quality. These metrics along with other metrics in customer, internal process and compliance and people 
perspective are taken into account while arriving at the remuneration decisions. The metrics on internal process 
and compliance ensure due weightage to non – financial risk that bank may be exposed to. The Remuneration 
Policy also contains provisions whereby the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Bank may review 
and approve the invoking of malus and/or clawback of compensation elements pertaining to the MD & CEO, 
WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank, including consideration of facts on a case to case basis and 
application of internal and external benchmarks.
	
	
An overview of the nature and type of key measures used to take account of these risks, including risk 
difficult to measure:
	
	
The Bank has a robust system of measuring and reviewing these risks. The risk parameters are a part of the 
BSC used for setting of performance objectives and for measuring performance which includes, besides financial 
performance, adherence to internal processes, compliance and people perspectives. Weightage is placed on 
not only financial or quantitative achievement of objectives but also on qualitative aspects detailing how the 
objectives were achieved.
	
	
A discussion of the ways in which these measures affect remuneration:
	
	
The relevant risk measures are included in the scorecards of MD & CEO and WTDs. Inclusion of the above mentioned 
measures ensures that performance parameters are aligned to risk measures at the time of performance evaluation. 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee takes into consideration all the above aspects while assessing 
organisational and individual performance and making compensation related recommendations to the Board.  
	
	
A discussion of how the nature and type of these measures have changed over the past year and reasons for the 
changes, as well as the impact of changes on remuneration:
	
	
The Bank continued to track key metrics across financial, customer, internal process and compliance and people 
perspective as part of FY 25 BSC. For FY 2024-25, metrics linked to Bank’s strategy, with focus on health metrics, 
sustainability, specifically on capital position and building distinctiveness were incorporated. Further, critical 
deliverables were included to drive progress as per the Bank’s Growth, Profitability Score strategy.
	
d)	
Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement period 
with levels of remuneration:
	
	
The Bank’s performance management and compensation philosophies are structured to support the achievement 
of the Bank’s on-going business objectives by rewarding achievement of objectives linked directly to its strategic 
business priorities. These strategic priorities are cascaded through annualised objectives to the employees. 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
402
	
	
The Bank follows the Balanced Scorecard approach in designing its performance management system. Adequate 
attention is given to the robust goal setting process to ensure alignment of individual objectives to support the 
achievement of business strategy, financial and non-financial goals across and through the organisation. The non-
financial goals for employees include customer service, process improvement, adherence to risk and compliance 
norms, operations and process control, learning and knowledge development.
	
	
An overview of main performance metrics for Bank, top level business lines and individuals:
	
	
The Bank follows a Balanced Scorecard approach for measuring performance for the Bank, top business lines 
and individuals. 
	
	
A discussion of how amounts of individual remuneration are linked to the Bank-wide and individual performance:
	
	
The Bank’s remuneration practices are underpinned by principles of meritocracy and fairness. The remuneration 
system strives to maintain the ability to attract, retain, reward and motivate the talent in order to enable the Bank 
to attain its strategic objectives within the increasingly competitive context in which it operates. The Bank’s pay-
for-performance approach strives to ensure both internal and external equity in line with emerging market trends. 
However, the business model and affordability form the overarching boundary conditions.
	
	
The Bank follows a Balanced Scorecard approach for measuring performance at senior levels. The Balanced 
Scorecard parameters for individuals are cascaded from the Bank’s Balanced Scorecard. The Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee reviews the achievements against the set of parameters which determines the 
performance of the individuals.
	
	
For all other employees, performance appraisals are conducted annually and initiated by the employee with self-
appraisal. The immediate supervisor reviews the appraisal ratings in a joint consultation meeting with the employee 
and assigns the performance rating. The final ratings are discussed by a Moderation Committee comprising of 
senior officials of the Bank. Both relative and absolute individual performances are considered for the moderation 
process. Individual fixed pay increases, variable pay, ESUs and ESOPs are linked to the final performance ratings. 
	
	
A discussion of the measures the Bank will in general implement to adjust remuneration in the event that 
performance metrics are weak:
	
	
In cases where the performance metrics are weak or not well defined to measure the performance effectively, 
the Bank uses discretion to reward such employees. The remuneration is then influenced by the operational 
performance parameters of the Bank along with individual performance achievement.  
	
	
Whilst determining fixed and variable remuneration, relevant risk measures are included in scorecards of 
senior employees.
	
	
As a prudent measure, for Material Risk Takers, a portion of variable pay if it exceeds a certain threshold is deferred 
and is paid proportionately over a period of 3 years. The deferred variable pay amount of reference year would be 
held back in case of any misrepresentation or gross inaccuracy resulting in a wrong risk assessment.
e)	
Description of the bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and a discussion of the bank’s policy 
and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and after vesting.:
	
i)	
Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration:
	
	
For MD&CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank, minimum 60% of the Total Variable Pay 
(including Cash Variable Pay and Stock Options) is deferred over 3 years or such other period as prescribed by 
RBI where applicable. In case the cash component is part of Total Variable Pay and exceeds ` 25 lakhs, at least 
50% of the cash component of variable pay is also deferred over 3 years or such other period as prescribed by RBI 
where applicable.
	
	
The Total Variable Pay for MD&CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank is subject to malus and 
clawback clauses, as defined in the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.

Standalone financial statements
403
	
ii)	
Bank’s policy and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and after vesting through claw 
back arrangements: 
	
	
The Total Variable Pay for MD&CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers of the Bank is subject to malus and 
clawback clauses, which are defined in the Remuneration Policy of the Bank. Detailed scenarios under which 
said clauses can be applied, such as event of an enquiry determining gross negligence or breach of integrity, or 
significant deterioration in financial performance are defined in the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
f)	
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration that the Bank utilizes and the rationale for using these 
different forms:
	
	
An overview of the forms of variable remuneration offered:
	
	
•	
Variable Pay: Variable Pay is linked to corporate performance, business performance and individual 
performance and ensures differential pay based on the performance levels of employees
	
	
•	
Employee Stock Options (ESOPs): ESOPs are given to selective set of employees at senior levels based on 
their level of performance and role. ESOP scheme has an inbuilt deferred vesting design which helps in 
directing long term performance orientation among employees.
	
	
•	
Employee Stock Units (ESUs): ESUs are given to employees between the grades of AVP and SVP II based on 
their level of performance. The ESU scheme has an inbuilt deferred vesting design which helps in directing 
long term performance orientation among employees.
	
	
A discussion of the use of different forms of variable remuneration  including a description of the factors that 
determine the mix and their relative importance: 
	
	
Variable pay in the form of performance based bonus is paid out annually and is linked to performance achievement 
against balanced performance measures and aligned with the principles of meritocracy. The proportion of variable 
pay in total pay shall be higher at senior management levels. The payment of all forms of variable pay is governed by 
the affordability of the Bank and based on profitability and cost income ratios. At senior management levels (and 
for certain employees with potential to cause material impact on risk exposure), a portion of variable compensation 
may be paid out in a deferred manner in order to drive prudent behaviour as well as long term & sustainable 
performance orientation. Long term variable pay is administered in the form of ESOPs and ESUs with an objective 
of enabling employee participation in the business as an active stakeholder and to usher in an ‘owner-manager’ 
culture. The quantum of grant of stock options is determined and approved by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, in terms of the said Regulations and in line with best practices, subject to the approval of RBI. The 
current ESOP and ESU design has an inbuilt deferral intended to spread and manage risk.
 
Quantitative disclosures
	
a)	
The quantitative disclosures pertaining to the MD & CEO, Whole Time Directors and Material Risk Takers for 
the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
a.
i)	
Number of meetings held by the Remuneration Committee (main 
body overseeing remuneration) during the financial year
12
12
ii)	
Remuneration paid to its members  (sitting fees)
`4,800,000
`4,700,000
b.
Number of employees having received a variable remuneration award 
during the financial year
28
25
c.
Number and total amount of sign-on/joining bonus made during the 
financial year
-	
Share-linked instruments (number of stock options granted)
162,387
395,976
-	
Fair value of share linked instruments
`6.41 crores1
`11.75 crores1
-	
Cash
`0.06 crores
-
d.
Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued benefits, if any
N.A.
N.A.
e.
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration, split into:
-	
Cash
`29.88 crores
`24.46 crores
-	
Shares
-
-

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
404
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
-	
Share-linked instruments (number of unvested stock options outstanding 
as on 31 March and fair value of the same)
3,275,367 options 
with a fair value of 
`109.52 crores1 
3,159,624 options 
with a fair value of 
`87.53 crores1 
f.
Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial year:
-	
Cash
`11.30 crores
`6.87 crores
-	
Share-linked instruments (number of stock options vested during the year 
and fair value of the same)
1,440,342 Options 
with a fair value of 
`38.39 crores1
2,753,690 Options 
with a fair value of 
`67.02 crores1
g.
Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the financial year to 
show fixed and variable, deferred and non-deferred, different forms used:
-	
Fixed
` 70.55 crores2
`66.32 crores2
-	
Variable
`117.41 crores
`113.39 crores
	
-	
Deferred
`100.61 crores 
`100.01 crores 
	
	
-	
of which, cash
`16.73 crores1
`13.18 crores1
	
	
-	
of which, share-linked instruments
`83.88 crores fair 
value of 2,323,007 
options granted 
during the year1
`86.83 crores fair 
value of 2,877,862 
options granted 
during the year1 
	
-	
Non-deferred
`16.79 crores
`13.38 crores
h.
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained 
remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and/or implicit adjustments
N.A.
N.A.
i.
Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex- post explicit 
adjustments
N.A.
N.A.
j.
Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex- post implicit 
adjustments
N.A.
N.A.
k.
Number of MRT's identified
29
27
l.
Number of cases where
- malus has been exercised
- clawback has been exercised
- both malus and clawback have been exercised
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
m.
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the 
deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean  
Mean pay of the Bank3 
`1,228,403
`1,186,330
Deviation of the pay of WTDs from the mean pay for the Bank
-	
MD & CEO
` 79,639,332
`77,944,261
-	
DMD
`51,751,906
`50,569,977
-	
WTD 1
`42,363,331
`32,619,849
-	
WTD 2
`41,763,292
`27,804,074
	
	
	
	
1.	 Fair value is the weighted average fair value of stock options computed using Black-Scholes options pricing model as on the grant 
date
	
	
	
	
2.	 Fixed pay includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation, contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund and value 
of perquisites. The value of perquisites is calculated as cost to the Bank
	
	
	
	
3.	 Mean pay is computed on annualised fixed pay of all confirmed employees (excluding frontline sales and overseas employess) as 
on 31 March. Fixed pay includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation, contribution to provident fund, gratuity 
fund and value of perquisites. The value of perquisites is calculated as cost to the Bank
	
Disclosure for compensation of Non-executive Directors (Except Part-time Chairman): 
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
a.
Amount of fixed remuneration paid during the year 
2.14
1.66

Standalone financial statements
405
1.14	 Other Disclosures
a)	
Business ratios 
As at
31 March, 2025
%
31 March, 2024
%
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1
8.10
8.05
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds1
1.67
1.65
Cost of Deposits
5.12
4.86
Net Interest Margin2
3.98
4.07
Operating profit3 as a percentage to working funds1
2.78
2.73
Return on assets (based on working funds1) 
1.74
1.83
Business (deposits less inter-bank deposits plus advances) per employee4
`20.88 crores
`20.19 crores
Profit per employee4 
`0.25 crores 
`0.25 crores 
	
1.	
Working funds represent average of total assets as reported to RBI in Form X under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
during the year
	
2.	
Net Interest Income/Average Earning Assets. Net Interest Income = Interest Income – Interest Expense
	
3.	
Operating profit represents total income as reduced by interest expended and operating expenses 
	
4.	
Productivity ratios are based on average employee numbers for the year
b)	
Bancassurance business 
(` in crores)
Sr. No.
Nature of Income
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
1.
For selling life insurance policies
2,746.91
1,979.26
2.
For selling non-life insurance policies
  427.36
  383.97
Total
3,174.27 
2,363.23 
c)	
Marketing and Distribution business
(` in crores)
Sr. No.
Nature of Income
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
1.
Mutual funds 
649.17
536.16
2.
Alternate products
206.51
166.15
3.
Government bonds 
1.43
7.06
4.
Fees for display of publicity material
257.85
224.70
5.
Others
36.21
  22.59
Total
1,151.17
956.66
d)	
Disclosure regarding Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs) purchased/sold by the Bank:
	
Details of PSLCs purchased by the Bank:
(` in crores)
Category
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
PSLC – Small/Marginal Farmers
72,453.50
37,045.00
Total
72,453.50
37,045.00

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
406
	
Details of PSLCs sold by the Bank
(` in crores)
Category
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
PSLC – Agriculture
32,000.00
8,485.00
PSLC – Micro Enterprises
35,000.00
-
PSLC – General
-
75,294.50
Total
67,000.00
83,779.50
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank incurred a cost of `1,483.53 crores (previous year `819.38 crores) 
excluding taxes, towards purchase of PSLCs which forms part of ‘Other Expenditure’ under Schedule 16 of the Profit 
and Loss Account. Further, during the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank also earned fees of `196.89 crores (previous 
year `57.42 crores) excluding taxes, on sale of PSLCs which forms part of ‘Miscellaneous Income’ under Schedule 14 of 
the Profit and Loss Account.
e)	
‘Provisions and contingencies’ recognised in the Profit and Loss Account comprise of:
(` in crores)
For the year ended
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Provision for income tax
-  Current tax
7,477.20
7,184.37
-  Deferred tax [Refer note 18 (2.8)]
  495.90
1,014.26
7,973.10
8,198.63
Provision for non-performing assets (including bad debts written off net of write backs and 
recoveries in written off accounts) 1
7,546.77
3,680.90
Provision for restructured assets 
(0.80)
(0.66)
Provision for COVID-19 restructuring & MSME restructuring
(143.48)
(279.35)
Provision towards standard assets
65.56
208.28
Provision for unhedged foreign currency exposures
(54.74)
91.57
Provision for country risk
10.57
6.13
Additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan
(38.44)
49.18
Provision for probable legal cases
527.55
12.56
Provision for other contingencies
(154.64)
294.48
Total
15,731.45
12,261.72
	
1.	
includes provision for non-performing advances of `11,578.59 crores (previous year `6,595.54 crores) and write-back of provision on 
non-performing investments of  `222.51 crores (previous year provision of `142.07 crores), net of recoveries from written off accounts 
of  `3,809.31 crores (previous year `2,772.57 crores)
f)	
Status of implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS):
	
The RBI had issued a circular in February 2016 requiring banks to implement Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
and prepare standalone and consolidated Ind AS financial statements with effect from 1 April, 2018. Banks were also 
required to report the comparative financial statements for the financial year 2017-18, to be published along with the 
financial statement for the year beginning 1 April, 2018. However, the RBI in its press release issued on 5 April, 2018 
deferred the applicability of Ind AS by one year (i.e. 1 April, 2019) for Scheduled Commercial Banks. Further, RBI in a 
circular issued on 22 March, 2019 has deferred the implementation of Ind AS till further notice.
	
During the financial year 2016-17, the Bank had undertaken a preliminary diagnostic analysis of the GAAP differences 
between Indian GAAP vis-a-vis Ind AS. The Bank has also identified and evaluated data gaps, processes and system 
changes required to implement Ind AS. The Bank is in the process of implementing necessary changes in its IT systems 
wherever required and other processes in a phased manner. The Bank is also submitting Proforma Ind AS financial 
statements to RBI on a half-yearly basis.
	
In line with the RBI guidelines on Ind AS implementation, the Bank has formed a Steering Committee comprising 
members from the concerned functional areas, headed by the Deputy Managing Director. The Steering Committee 

Standalone financial statements
407
reviews the proforma Ind AS financial statements and provides guidance on critical areas of implementation on a 
periodic basis. A progress report on the status of Ind AS implementation in the Bank is presented to the Audit Committee 
and Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Accounting impact on the application of Ind AS shall be recognized as and 
when it become statutorily applicable to banks and in the manner so prescribed.
g)	
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium1
1,240.30
1,104.94
Arrears in payment of DICGC premium
-
 -
Total
1,240.30
  1,104.94
	
1.	
Amount reported is excluding GST
h)	
Disclosure on provisioning pertaining to Land held under ‘Non-Banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims’
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Amount of Land held under ‘Non-Banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims’ at the end 
of the year
1,855.85
1,855.85
Provision held at the beginning of the year
1,855.85
2,068.24
Provisions made during the year by debiting profit and loss account
-
-
Provisions reversed during the year
            - 
   (212.39)
Provisions held at the end of the year 
1,855.85
1,855.85
Unamortised provision debited from ‘Balance in profit and loss account’  under ‘Reserves and 
Surplus’
-
-
i)	
Letters of Comfort
	
The Bank has not issued any Letter of Comfort (LoC) on behalf of its subsidiaries during the current and previous year.
j)	
Portfolio-level information regarding the use of the green deposit funds as required under “Framework for acceptance 
of Green Deposits” issued by RBI :
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Cumulative
Total green deposits raised (A)
-
-
-
Use of green deposit funds
1)	 Renewable Energy
-
-
-
2)	 Energy Efficiency
-
-
-
3)	 Clean Transportation
-
-
-
4)	 Climate Change Adaptation
-
-
-
5)	 Sustainable Water and Waste Management
-
-
-
6)	 Pollution Prevention and Control
-
-
-
7)	 Green Buildings
-
-
-
8)	 Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use
-
-
-
9)	 Terrestrial and Aquatic Biodiversity Conservation
-
-
-
Total Green Deposit funds allocated (B = Sum of 1 to 9)
-
-
-
Amount of Green Deposit funds not allocated (C = A – B)
-
-
-
Details of the temporary allocation of green deposit proceeds pending their 
allocation to the eligible green activities/projects
-
-
-

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
408
k)	
Details of Others (including provisions) in Other Liabilities and Provisions of Schedule 5 of Balance Sheet exceeding 1% 
of Total Assets
	
As at 31 March, 2025
Sr. No.
Particulars
(` in crores)
1.
Mark-to-Market (MTM) liability on forex and derivative contracts
19,928.54
	
As on 31 March, 2024, none of the items under Others (including provisions) in Other Liabilities and Provisions of 
Schedule 5 of Balance Sheet exceeded 1% of Total Assets. 
l)	
Details of Others in Other Assets of Schedule 11 of Balance Sheet exceeding 1% of Total Assets 
	
As at 31 March, 2025
Sr. No.
Particulars
(` in crores)
1.
Mark-to-Market (MTM) assets on forex and derivative contracts
20,496.42
	
As at 31 March, 2024
Sr. No.
Particulars
(` in crores)
1.
Priority Sector Shortfall Deposits
21,557.10 
m)	
Miscellaneous income exceeding 1% of the total income
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, none of the items under miscellaneous income (Schedule 
14 – Other Income) have exceeded 1% of total income of the Bank.
n)	
Expenses exceeding 1% of the total income
	
Details of items under other expenditure (Schedule 16 – Operating Expenses) exceeding 1% of total income of the Bank 
are given below:
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
Sr. No.
Nature of Expense
(` in crores)
1.
Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA)
2,619.66
2.
Charges paid to network partners 
1,629.80
3.
Cashback charges
1,594.58
4.
Charges paid for purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (excluding taxes)
1,483.53
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Sr. No.
Nature of Expense
(` in crores)
1.
Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA)
1,963.00
2.
Professional fees
1,924.18
3.
Cashback charges
1,807.75
4.
Business promotion expenses
1,627.88
5.
Charges paid to network partners 
1,517.65
2.	
Other Disclosures
2.1	 Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’)
	
The details of EPS computation is set out below:
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Basic and Diluted earnings for the year (Net profit after tax) (` in crores)
26,373.48
24,861.43
Basic weighted average no. of shares (in crores)
309.26
308.17

Standalone financial statements
409
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Add: Equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/units under ESOP/
ESU scheme (in crores)
1.84
2.23
Diluted weighted average no. of shares (in crores)
311.10
310.40
Basic EPS (`)
85.28
80.67
Less: Effect of potential equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/
units under ESOP/ESU scheme (`)
(0.51)
(0.57)
Diluted EPS (`)
84.77
80.10
Nominal value of shares (`)
2.00
2.00
	
Dilution of equity is on account of 18,432,380 stock options/units (previous year 22,287,930 stock options/units)
2.2	 Employee Stock Options/Units
	
Over the period till 31 March 2025, pursuant to the approval of the shareholders, the Bank has framed Employee 
Stock Option Schemes for options aggregating 315,087,000 that vest in a graded manner over 3 to 4 years, subject 
to vesting conditions. The options can be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Further, pursuant 
to the approval of the shareholders in January 2023, the Bank also framed an Employee Stock Units (ESUs) Scheme 
aggregating to 50,000,000 units, that vest in a graded manner over 3 years, subject to vesting conditions. The ESUs can 
be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Within the respective overall ceilings of options/units, the 
Bank is authorised to issue options/units to eligible employees and Whole Time Directors (including those of subsidiary 
companies and Associate entity).
	
324,312,311 options and 2,704,077 ESUs have been granted under the Schemes till the previous year ended 
31 March, 2024. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the approval of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, the Bank granted options/units (each option representing entitlement to one equity share of the Bank) to 
eligible employees/directors of the Bank/subsidiary companies as set out below:
Date of grant
Options / ESUs
No. of options granted
Grant price 
(` per option/ units)
25 April, 2024
Options
7,019,246
1,063.25
25 April, 2024
ESUs
2,408,870
2.00
11 July, 2024
Options
86,261
1,291.65
	
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below:
Options 
outstanding
Range of exercise 
prices (`)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
52,199,448
 469.90 to 929.80
712.34
4.27
Granted during the year
7,105,507
1,063.25 to 1,291.65
     1,066.02
-
Forfeited during the year
(2,455,328)
469.90 to 1,063.25
     820.58
-
Expired during the year
(102,753)
469.90 to 757.10
     654.80
-
Exercised during the year
(10,393,527)
469.90 to 848.80
     659.82
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
46,353,347
488.35 to 1,291.65
772.73
4.01
Exercisable at the end of the year
34,860,694
488.35 to 1,063.25
     707.90
3.32
	
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,143.23.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
410
	
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below: 
Units 
outstanding
Exercise price (`)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
2,534,240
    2.00
    2.00
6.09
Granted during the year
2,408,870
2.00
2.00
-
Forfeited during the year
(270,729)
2.00
2.00
-
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
(405,164)
2.00
2.00
-
 Outstanding at the end of the year
4,267,217
2.00
2.00
5.75
Exercisable at the end of the year
1,057,224
2.00
2.00
4.63
	
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,146.05.
	
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below: 
Options 
outstanding
Range of exercise 
prices (`)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual 
life (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
51,107,688
    433.10 to 804.80
     653.48
4.37
Granted during the year
12,705,878
848.80 to 929.80
848.84
-
Forfeited during the year
(1,829,116)
469.90 to 848.80 
756.94
-
Expired during the year
(82,360)
    469.90 to 535.00
505.43
-
Exercised during the year
(9,702,642)
433.10 to 848.80
574.29
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
52,199,448
469.90 to 929.80
712.34
4.27
Exercisable at the end of the year
37,480,122
469.90 to 929.80
678.79
3.46
	
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,003.21.
	
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below: 
Units 
outstanding
Range of exercise 
prices (`)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual 
life (Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
-
-
-
-
Granted during the year
2,704,077
2.00
2.00
-
Forfeited during the year
(154,116)
2.00
2.00
-
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
(15,721)
2.00
2.00
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
2,534,240
2.00
2.00
6.09
Exercisable at the end of the year
749,823
2.00
2.00
4.98
	
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,044.23.
	
Fair Value Methodology
	
In line with RBI clarification on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/Chief Executive Officers/
Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff issued on 30 August, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method 
for all share-linked instruments granted after 31 March, 2021 and consequently recognizes the fair value of options 
computed using the Black-Scholes model, without reducing estimated forfeitures, as a compensation expense over the 
vesting period. During the year, the Bank has recognised compensation cost of `365.79 crores (previous year `400.70 
crores)  for options/units granted to employees of the Bank and recovered `58.18 crores (previous year `53.63 crores) 
from group entities in respect of options/units granted to the employees and deputed staff at group entities.

Standalone financial statements
411
	
The fair value of the options/units is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes options pricing model, 
with the following assumptions:
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
ESOP
ESU
ESOP
ESU
Dividend yield
0.09%
0.09%
0.26%
0.26%
Expected life
2.95-5.95 years
1-3 years
2.95-5.95 years
1-3 years
Risk free interest rate
6.85% to 7.09%
6.95% to 7.06%
6.79% to 7.17%
6.94% to 7.12%
Volatility
24.00% to 29.15%
19.89% to 24.01%
29.90% to 38.27%
25.28% to 31.99%
	
Volatility is the measure of the amount by which a price has fluctuated or is expected to fluctuate during a period. 
The measure of volatility used in the Black-Scholes options pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the 
continuously compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. For calculating volatility, the daily volatility 
of the stock prices on the National Stock Exchange, over a period prior to the date of grant, corresponding with the 
expected life of the options has been considered.
	
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `358.68 (previous 
year `297.95). 
	
The weighted average fair value of units granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `1,059.51 
(previous year `842.45).
2.3	 Proposed Dividend
	
The Board of Directors, in their meeting held on 24 April, 2025 have proposed a final dividend of  `1 per equity share 
amounting to `309.74 crores.  The proposal is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
In terms of revised Accounting Standard (AS) 4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance sheet date’ 
as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, such 
proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability as on 31 March, 2025.
	
During the year, the Bank paid final dividend of `1 per equity share amounting `309.09 crores pertaining to the previous 
year ended 31 March, 2024.
2.4	 Segmental reporting
	
The business of the Bank is divided into four segments: Treasury, Retail Banking, Corporate/Wholesale Banking and 
Other Banking Business. These segments have been identified based on the RBI’s revised guidelines on Segment 
Reporting issued on 18 April, 2007 vide Circular No. DBOD.No.BP.BC.81/21.04.018/2006-07. The principal activities 
of these segments are as under.
Segment
Principal Activities
Treasury
Treasury operations include investments in sovereign and corporate debt, equity and mutual funds, 
trading operations, derivative trading and foreign exchange operations on the proprietary account and 
for customers. The Treasury segment also includes the central funding unit.
Retail Banking
Constitutes lending to individuals/small businesses through the branch network and other delivery 
channels subject to the orientation, nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum 
thereof. Retail Banking activities also include liability products, card services, internet banking, mobile 
banking, ATM services, depository, financial advisory services and NRI services.
Digital Banking  
(Sub- segment of Retail 
Banking)
In accordance with RBI circular DOR.AUT.REC.12/22.01.001/2022-23 dated 7 April 2022 on 
Establishment of Digital Banking Units, the Bank has presented ‘Digital Banking’ as a sub-segment of the 
Retail Banking segment.
Corporate/Wholesale 
Banking
Includes corporate relationships not included under Retail Banking, corporate advisory services, 
placements and syndication, project appraisals, capital market related services and cash management 
services.
Other Banking Business
Includes para banking activities like third party product distribution and other banking transactions not 
covered under any of the above three segments.
	
Unallocated assets and liabilities - All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment 
such as deferred tax, tax paid in advance net of provision, provision for other contingencies towards potential 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
412
expected losses  etc.
	
Revenues of the Treasury segment primarily consist of fees and gains or losses from trading operations and interest 
income on the investment portfolio. The principal expenses of the segment consist of interest expense on funds 
borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct 
overheads and allocated expenses.
	
Revenues of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking segment consist of interest and fees earned on loans given to customers 
falling under this segment and fees arising from transaction services and merchant banking activities such as syndication 
and debenture trusteeship. Revenues of the Retail Banking segment are derived from interest earned on loans classified 
under this segment, fees for banking and advisory services, ATM interchange fees and cards products. Expenses of the 
Corporate/Wholesale Banking and Retail Banking segments primarily comprise interest expense on deposits and funds 
borrowed from other internal segments, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating the branch network and 
other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses.
	
Segment income includes earnings from external customers and from funds transferred to the other segments. Segment 
result includes revenue as reduced by interest expense and operating expenses and provisions, if any, for that segment. 
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations.  Inter segment interest income and interest expense 
represent the transfer price received from and paid to the Central Funding Unit (CFU) respectively.  For this purpose, 
the funds transfer pricing mechanism presently followed by the Bank, which is based on historical matched maturity 
and internal benchmarks, has been used by the Bank and relied upon by the Statutory Auditors. Operating expenses 
other than those directly attributable to segments are allocated to the segments based on an activity-based costing 
methodology. All activities in the Bank are segregated segment-wise and allocated to the respective segment. 

Standalone financial statements
413
	
Segmental results are set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Treasury
Corporate/
Wholesale 
Banking
Retail Banking
Other 
Banking 
Business
Unallocated
Total
Digital 
Banking 
Business
Other Retail 
Banking
Business
Total Retail 
Banking
Segment Revenue
Gross interest income (external customers)
25,118.44
33,445.55
15,446.07
48,298.26
63,744.33
-
368.72
1,22,677.04
Other income
3,548.12
4,686.88
7,685.28
4,615.27
12,300.55
4,721.51
-
25,257.06
Total income as per Profit and Loss Account
28,666.56
38,132.43
23,131.35
52,913.53
76,044.88
4,721.51
368.72
1,47,934.10
Add/(less) inter segment interest income 
1,245.89
8,447.91
11,189.01
53,694.40
64,883.41
-
-
74,577.21
Total segment revenue
29,912.45
46,580.34
34,320.36
1,06,607.93
1,40,928.29
4,721.51
368.72
2,22,511.31
Less: Interest expense (external customers)
18,071.06
1,730.95
9,215.82
39,311.39
48,527.21
-
-
68,329.22
Less: Inter segment interest expense
5,368.43
28,066.80
7,164.82
33,977.16
41,141.98
-
-
74,577.21
Less: Operating expenses
482.91
5,381.95
10,151.13
21,225.61
31,376.74
258.35
-
37,499.95
Operating profit
5,990.05
11,400.64
7,788.59
12,093.77
19,882.36
4,463.16
368.72
42,104.93
Less: Provision for non-performing assets/others1 
(1,182.68)
(963.43)
5,590.49
4,342.61
9,933.10
0.02
(28.66)
7,758.35
Segment result
7,172.73
12,364.07
2,198.10
7,751.16
9,949.26
4,463.14
397.38
34,346.58
Less: Provision for tax
7,973.10
Extraordinary profit/loss
               - 
Net Profit
26,373.48
Segment assets
538,714.45
425,365.09
127,728.56
510,614.06
638,342.62
776.74
6,730.98
16,09,929.88
Segment liabilities
261,334.83
232,941.73
174,174.82
754,850.49
929,025.31
54.49
7,956.58
14,31,312.94
Net assets
2,77,379.62
1,92,423.36
(46,446.26)
(2,44,236.43)
(2,90,682.69)
722.25
(1,225.60)
1,78,616.94
Capital expenditure for the year 
14.88
485.49
458.99
1,463.06
1,922.04
46.90
-
2,469.31
Depreciation on fixed assets for the year 
10.24
334.07
315.83
1,006.72
1,322.56
32.27
-
1,699.14
	
1.	
represents material non-cash items other than depreciation

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
414
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Treasury
Corporate/
Wholesale 
Banking
Retail Banking
Other 
Banking 
Business
Unallocated
Total
Digital 
Banking 
Business
Other Retail 
Banking
Business
Total Retail 
Banking
Segment Revenue
Gross interest income (external customers)
22,244.24
30,895.03
11,564.11
44,590.24
56,154.35
75.01
-
109,368.63
Other income
3,053.43
4,401.77
7,026.13
4,451.54
11,477.67
3,509.09
-
22,441.96
Total income as per Profit and Loss Account
25,297.67
35,296.80
18,590.24
49,041.78
67,632.02
3,584.10
-
131,810.59
Add/(less) inter segment interest income 
3,633.50
8,915.86
7,526.57
47,065.01
54,591.58
-
-
67,140.94
Total segment revenue
28,931.17
44,212.66
26,116.81
96,106.79
1,22,223.60
3,584.10
-
1,98,951.53
Less: Interest expense (external customers)
17,215.96
2,079.46
6,290.16
33,926.31
40,216.47
(37.74)
-
59,474.15
Less: Inter segment interest expense
5,114.69
25,575.32
5,455.28
30,995.65
36,450.93
-
-
67,140.94
Less: Operating expenses
  375.93
  4,769.60
10,353.21
19,444.84
29,798.05
  269.70
-
35,213.28
Operating profit
6,224.59
11,788.28
4,018.16
11,739.99
15,758.15
3,352.14
-
37,123.16
Less: Provision for non-performing assets/others1 
(4.54)
(1,474.30)
2,895.29
2,647.45
5,542.74
(0.81)
-
4,063.09
Segment result
6,229.13
13,262.58
1,122.87
9,092.54
10,215.41
3,352.95
-
33,060.07
Less: Provision for tax
8,198.64
Extraordinary profit/loss
- 
Net Profit
24,861.43
Segment assets
484,536.90
385,984.29
107,119.17
492,442.77
599,561.94
1,061.37
6,064.10
14,77,208.60
Segment liabilities
261,497.26
226,266.46
124,919.44
708,005.87
832,925.31
62.26
6,222.31
13,26,973.60
Net assets
223,039.64
1,59,717.83
(17,800.27)
(215,563.10)
(233,363.37)
999.11
(158.21)
1,50,235.00
Capital expenditure for the year 
15.44
447.59
329.77
1,371.27
1,701.05
41.30
(16.69)
2,188.67
Depreciation on fixed assets for the year 
9.45
274.08
199.44
842.19
1,041.63
25.30
(16.69)
1,333.75
	
	
1.	 represents material non-cash items other than depreciation 

Standalone financial statements
415
	
Geographic Segments

(` in crores) 
Domestic
International
Total
31 March, 
2025
31 March, 
2024
31 March, 
2025
31 March, 
2024
31 March, 
2025
31 March, 
2024
Revenue
144,612.90
128,741.80
3,321.20
3,068.79
147,934.10
131,810.59
Assets
1,553,397.93
1,425,665.61
56,531.95
51,542.99
1,609,929.88
1,477,208.60
Capital Expenditure for the year
2,462.82
2,188.18
6.49
0.49
2,469.31
2,188.67
Depreciation on fixed assets for 
the year
1,697.78
1,332.10
1.36
1.65
1,699.14
1,333.75
2.5	 Related party disclosure
	
The related parties of the Bank are broadly classified as:
a)	
Promoters 
	
The Bank has identified the following entities as its Promoters:
	
•	
Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI) (upto 17 July, 2023)
	
•	
Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)
b)	
Key Management Personnel
	
•	
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry (MD & CEO)
	
•	
Mr. Rajiv Anand (Deputy Managing Director)
	
•	
Mr. Subrat Mohanty (Executive Director) (with effect from 17 August, 2023)
	
•	
Mr. Munish Sharda (Executive Director) (with effect from 27 February, 2024)
c)	
Relatives of Key Management Personnel 
	
Ms. Preeti Chaudhry, Mr. Anagh Chaudhry, Mr. Aruj Chaudhry, Mr. Aryan Chaudhry, Ms. Rajul Parekh, Ms. Chhavi Kharb, 
Mr. Ashok Kharb, Mr. Om Singh Chaudhry, Ms. Kusum Chaudhry, Ms. Gitanjali Anand, Ms. Tara Anand, Ms. Nandita 
Anand, Mr. P.L. Narain, Mr. P. Srinivas, Ms. Ratna Rao Shekar, Ms. Charu Narain, Ms. K Ramalakshmi, Ms. Smitha 
Mohanty, Mr. Agastya Mohanty, Mr. Rajat Mohanty, Mr. Neelima Mohanty, Mr. Narasingh Mohanty, Ms. Gitashree 
Mohanty, Ms. Rima Sharda, Ms. Tanya Sharda, Ms. Shashi Sharda, Mr. Rakesh Sharda, Ms. Monica Sharda.
d)	
Subsidiary Companies
	
•	
Axis Capital Limited 
	
•	
Axis Trustee Services Limited
	
•	
Axis Asset Management Company Limited
	
•	
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
	
•	
Axis UK Limited (formerly Axis Bank UK Limited)
	
•	
Axis Finance Limited 
	
•	
Axis Securities Limited
	
•	
A.Treds Limited 
	
•	
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited 
	
•	
Freecharge Business and Technology Services Limited (with effect from 6 May, 2024)

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
416
e)	
Step down subsidiary companies
	
•	
Axis Capital USA LLC 
	
•	
Axis Pension Fund Management Limited 
f)	
Associate
	
•	
Axis Max Life Insurance Company Limited (formerly Max Life Insurance Company Limited)
	
Based on RBI guidelines, details of transactions with Promoter (Life Insurance Corporation of India) and Associate (Axis 
Max Life Insurance Company Limited) are not disclosed since there is only one entity/party in the aforesaid categories.
	
The details of transactions of the Bank with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel#
Subsidiaries
Step down 
Subsidiaries
Total
Dividend paid
0.06
-*
-
-
0.06
Dividend received                     
-
-
24.58
-
24.58
Interest paid
0.38
0.76
64.45
0.03
65.62
Interest received
0.01
-*
38.48
-
38.49
Investment of the Bank
-
-
888.56
-
888.56
Repayment of Share Capital by related party
-
-
329.28
-
329.28
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party
-
-
375.00
-
375.00
Investment of related party in the Bank
53.29
-
-
-
53.29
Sale of investments
-
-
554.39
-
554.39
Management contracts 
-
-
8.20
0.39
8.59
Remuneration paid
27.71
-
-
-
27.71
Contribution to employee benefit fund
-
-
-
-
-
Swaps/Forward contracts
-
-
3.24
-
3.24
Advance granted (net)
-
0.07
123.71
-
123.78
Advance repaid
0.77
-
0.06
-
0.83
Non-funded commitments (reduction)
-
-
0.05
-
0.05
Purchase of loans
-
-
25.24
-
25.24
Receiving of services
-
-
186.09
0.05
186.14
Rendering of services
-*
-*
202.27
0.42
202.69
Sale/Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related 
party
0.14
-*
-
-
0.14
Royalty Received
-
-
11.82
0.01
11.83
Other reimbursements from related party
-
-
65.75
1.46
67.21
Other reimbursements to related party
-
-
5.53
-
5.53
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank as on 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel#
Subsidiaries
Step down 
Subsidiaries
Total
Deposits with the Bank
8.81
14.43
2,031.06
0.78
2,055.08
Placement of deposits
-
-
-
-
-
Advances
0.19
0.15
441.50
-
441.84
Investment of the Bank
-
-
3,807.53
7.22
3,814.75
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party
-
-
495.00
-
495.00
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.12
-*
-
-
0.12
Non-funded commitments
-
-
0.25
-
0.25
Other receivables (net)
-
-
27.16
0.07
27.23
Other payables (net)
-
-
73.91
-
73.91
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-

Standalone financial statements
417
	
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank during the year ended 
31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Subsidiaries
Step down 
Subsidiaries
Total
Deposits with the Bank
22.83
14.77
2,547.57
7.50
2,592.67
Placement of deposits
-
-
-
-
-
Advances
1.01
0.23
914.73
-
915.97
Investment of the Bank
-
-
3,816.60
7.22
3,823.82
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.14
-*
-
-
0.14
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party
-
-
495.00
-
495.00
Non-funded commitments
-
-
0.30
-
0.30
Other receivables (net)
-
-
27.16
0.07
27.23
Other payables (net)
-
-
135.68
0.03
135.71
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The details of transactions of the Bank with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Promoters
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel#
Subsidiaries
Step down 
Subsidiaries
Total
Dividend paid
24.49
0.05
-*
-
-
24.54
Dividend received
-
-
-
41.38
-
41.38
Interest paid
399.71
0.23
0.47
30.39
0.50
431.30
Interest received
-*
0.04
-*
75.51
-
75.55
Investment of the Bank
-
-
-
300.87
-
300.87
Repayment of Share Capital by related party
-
-
-
-
-
-
Investment in non-equity instruments of 
related party
-
-
-
466.48
-
466.48
Investment of related party in the Bank
-
20.39
-
-
-
20.39
Sale of investments
-
-
-
225.88
-
225.88
Management contracts 
-
-
-
8.84
0.34
9.18
Remuneration paid
-
17.77
-
-
-
17.77
Contribution to employee benefit fund
15.95
-
-
-
-
15.95
Swaps/Forward contracts
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advance granted (net)
-
-
-
0.03
-
0.03
Advance repaid
-
0.42
-
392.93
-
393.35
Non-funded commitments (reduction)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Purchase of loans
-
-
-
50.04
-
50.04
Receiving of services
92.63
-
-
346.80
0.05
439.48
Rendering of services
89.83
-*
-*
89.49
0.55
179.87
Sale/Purchase of foreign exchange currency 
to/from related party
-
0.22
-
-
-
0.22
Royalty Received
-
-
-
8.94
-*
8.95
Other reimbursements from related party
-
-
-
63.21
1.14
64.35
Other reimbursements to related party
1.14
-
-
4.49
0.51
6.14
	
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
418
	
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank as on 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel#
Subsidiaries
Step down 
Subsidiaries
Total
Deposits with the Bank
7.63 
8.63 
1,540.48 
0.07 
1,556.81
Placement of deposits
-
-
-
-
- 
Advances
0.98 
0.06 
317.86 
-
318.90 
Investment of the Bank
-
-
3,248.25 
7.22 
3,255.47 
Investment in non-equity instruments of related 
party
-
-
120.00 
-
120.00 
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.14 
-* 
-
-
0.14 
Non-funded commitments
-
-
0.30 
-
0.30 
Other receivables (net)
-
-
16.55 
0.05 
16.60 
Other payables (net)
-
-
76.97 
0.03 
77.00 
	
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Bank during the year ended 
31 March, 2024 are given below: 
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Subsidiaries
Step down 
Subsidiaries
Total
Deposits with the Bank
14.09
9.12
3,230.22
23.96
3,277.39
Placement of deposits
-
-
-
-
-
Advances
1.34
0.07
1,115.34
-
1,116.75
Investment of the Bank
-
-
3,248.25
7.22
3,255.47
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.14
-*
-
-
0.14
Investment in non-equity instruments of related 
party
-
-
425.00
-
425.00
Non-funded commitments
-
-
0.30
-
0.30
Other receivables (net)
-
-
16.55
0.21
16.76
Other payables (net)
-
-
103.13
0.53
103.66
	
* Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The transactions with Promoters and Key Management Personnel excluding those under management contracts are in 
the nature of the banker-customer relationship.
	
Details of transactions with Axis Mutual Fund, the fund floated by Axis Asset Management Company Ltd., the Bank’s 
subsidiary has not been disclosed since the entity does not qualify as Related Party as defined under the Accounting 
Standard 18, Related Party Disclosure, as notified under Section 2(2) and Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
as per RBI guidelines.

Standalone financial statements
419
	
The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 
March, 2024 are given below. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a significant related party transaction 
wherever it exceeds 10% of the aggregate value of all related party transactions in that category: 
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Dividend received
 Axis UK Limited
10.33
27.13
 Axis Trustee Services Limited
14.25
14.25
Dividend paid
 Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.06
0.05
Interest paid
 Axis Capital limited
8.64
8.42
 Axis Securities Limited
40.68
8.66
Interest received
 Axis Finance Limited
33.70
66.93
 Axis Securities Limited
4.72
8.47
Investment in Subsidiaries
 Axis Securities Limited
250.00
-
 Axis Finance Limited
598.56
300.87
Investment in non-equity instruments of related party
 Axis Finance Limited
375.00
466.48
Repayment of Share Capital by related party
 Axis UK Limited
329.28
-
Investment of related party in the Bank
 Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 
35.09
9.77
 Mr. Rajiv Anand
13.97
10.62
Sale of investments
 Axis Securities Limited
554.39
225.88
Management contracts 
 A.Treds Limited
3.28
4.00
 Axis Capital Limited
2.33
2.13
 Axis Trustee Services Limited
2.25
2.00
 Axis Asset Management Company Limited
0.17
0.72
Remuneration paid 
 Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry
9.80
9.10
 Mr. Rajiv Anand
6.84
6.07
 Mr. Subrat Mohanty
5.63
2.29

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
420
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
 Mr. Munish Sharda
5.44
0.31
Swaps/Forward contracts
 Axis UK Limited
3.24
-
Advance granted (net)
 Axis Finance Limited
123.71
-
 Axis Securities Limited
-
0.03
Advance repaid
 Axis Finance Limited
-
391.91
 Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.77
0.42
Non-funded commitments (reduction)
 Axis Asset Management Company Limited
0.05
-
Purchase of loans
 Axis UK Limited
25.24
50.04
Receiving of services
 Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited
183.76
343.51
 Axis Securities Limited
0.03
0.02
Rendering of services
 Axis Securities Limited
64.84
24.49
 Axis Asset Management Company Limited
28.78
26.38
 Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited
87.94
23.69
Sale/Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related party
 Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry 
0.04
0.10
 Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.03
0.09
 Mr. Subrat Mohanty
0.03
0.02
 Mr. Munish Sharda
0.04
0.01
Royalty received
 Axis Asset Management Company Limited
2.17
1.89
 Axis Capital Limited
1.06
0.79
 Axis Finance Limited
6.15
4.60
 Axis Securities Limited
2.23
1.59
Other reimbursements from related party
 Axis Securities Limited
12.06
7.27
 Axis Capital Limited
6.66
3.22
 Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited
2.26
3.17

Standalone financial statements
421
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
 Axis Asset Management Company Limited
30.06
31.87
 Axis Finance Limited
8.45
14.35
Other reimbursements to related party
 Axis Capital Limited
5.28
4.09
 Axis UK Limited
-
0.16
 Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited
0.02
0.15
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
2.6	 Leases
	
Disclosure in respect of assets taken on operating lease
	
This comprises of branches, office premises/ATMs, cash deposit machines, currency chests, staff quarters, office 
and IT equipments.
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Future lease rentals payable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year
1,311.87
1,206.80
- Later than one year and not later than five years
4,200.71
3,774.25
- Later than five years
4,907.75
4,004.41
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year
1,741.94
1,503.78
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable 
subleases
0.16
0.50
Sub-lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year
0.64
0.89
	
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.  
	
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.
	
The terms of renewal/purchase options and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. 
There are generally no undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
	
Disclosure in respect of assets given on operating lease
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Gross carrying amount of premises at the end of the year
209.60
209.60
Accumulated depreciation at the end of the year
32.41
28.92
Total depreciation charged to profit and loss account for the year
3.49
3.49
Future lease rentals receivable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year
28.66
28.66
- Later than one year and not later than five years
81.14
92.56
- Later than five years
34.17
51.41
	
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
422
2.7	 Movement in fixed assets capitalised as application software and intangibles (included in other fixed assets)
	
•	
Movement of fixed assets capitalized as application software
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year
3,995.01
3,304.54
Additions during the year*
1,118.13
713.88
Deductions during the year
(124.02)
(23.41)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March
(3,214.37)
(2,671.59)
Closing balance as at 31 March
1,774.75
1,323.42
Depreciation charge for the year
659.47
509.52
	
	
*includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation for assets denominated in foreign currency
	
•	
Movement of fixed assets capitalized as intangibles and goodwill
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year
11,932.39
11,949.08
Additions during the year
-
-
Deductions during the year
-
(16.69)
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March
11,932.39
11,932.39
Closing balance as at 31 March
-
-
Amortisation charge for the year
-
(16.69)
2.8	 The major components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities arising out of timing differences are as under:
(` in crores)
As at
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Deferred tax assets on account of provisions for loan losses
3,520.60
3,882.96
Deferred tax assets on account of provision for employee benefits
136.06
63.31
Deferred tax assets on Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (FCTR)
189.90
148.95
Deferred tax assets on other items
1,882.51
1,901.39
Deferred tax assets
5,729.07
5,996.61
Deferred tax liabilities on account of depreciation on fixed assets
83.20
74.58
Deferred tax liability on creation of Special Reserve under Income Tax Act  
[Refer note 18 (1.1) (b) (iv)]
863.88
606.92
Deferred tax liability on transition gain on MTM of Investments 
115.62
-
Deferred tax liabilities on interest on income tax refund
90.97
-
Deferred tax liabilities on account of other items
       134.39
      2.81
Deferred tax liabilities
1,288.06
  684.31
Net Deferred tax assets
4,441.01
5,312.30
2.9	 Employee Benefits
	
Provident Fund
	
The rules of the Bank’s Provident Fund administered by a Trust require that if the Board of Trustees are unable to 
pay interest at the rate declared for Employees’ Provident Fund by the Government under para 60 of the Employees’ 
Provident Fund Scheme, 1952 for the reason that the return on investment is less or for any other reason, then the 
deficiency shall be made good by the Bank. 
	
Based on an actuarial valuation conducted by the independent actuary, there is no deficiency in the Trust observed as 
at the Balance Sheet date. 

Standalone financial statements
423
	
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Provident Fund benefit plan (including staff 
deputed at subsidiaries).
	
Profit and Loss Account
	
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost*
288.99
251.33
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation
324.38
297.90
Expected Return on Plan Assets
(385.65)
(344.84)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year 
4.20
4.16
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition 
-
-
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard – 15
57.07
42.78
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(I)]
288.99
251.33
Actual Return on Plan Assets
453.51
381.61
	
* includes contribution of `0.32 crores towards staff deputed at subsidiaries (previous year `0.28 crores)
	
Balance Sheet
	
Details of provision for provident fund
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Fair Value of Plan Assets
5,178.59
4,519.51
Present Value of Funded Obligations
(5,004.56)
(4,402.55)
Net asset
174.03
116.96
Amount not recognized as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard -15)
(174.03)
(116.96)
Net Asset/(Liability)
-
-
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities
-
-
Assets
-
-
Net Asset/(Liability)
-
-
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation
4,402.55
3,933.75
Current Service Cost
288.99
251.33
Interest Cost
324.38
297.90
Actuarial Losses/(Gains)
72.06
40.93
Employees Contribution
479.87
442.48
Liability transferred from/to other companies 
(24.13)
(118.31)
Benefits Paid
(539.16)
(445.53)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation
5,004.56
4,402.55
	
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Change in the Fair Value of Assets
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets
4,519.51
4,007.93

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
424
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Expected Return on Plan Assets
385.65
344.84
Actuarial Gains/(Losses)
67.86
36.77
Employer contribution during the period
288.99
251.33
Employee contribution during the period
479.87
442.48
Assets transferred from/to other companies
                 (24.13)
              (118.31) 
Benefits Paid
(539.16)
(445.53)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets
5,178.59
4,519.51
	
Experience adjustments 
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
31 March, 2023
31 March, 2022
31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations
5,004.56
4,402.55
3,933.75
3,404.21
2,861.59
Plan Assets
5,178.59
4,519.51
4,007.93
3,538.64
2,861.59
Surplus/(Deficit)
174.03
116.96
74.18
134.43
-
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities
38.22
19.59
17.24
169.83
43.51
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets
67.86
36.77
(106.74)
270.73
(12.88)
	
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Government securities
53%
51%
Other debt instruments 
11%
11%
Equity shares
13%
11%
Others
23%
27%
	
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Discount rate for the term of the obligation
6.80%
7.20%
Average historic yield on the investment portfolio
8.19%
8.34%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment portfolio
6.80%
7.20%
Expected investment return
8.19%
8.34%
Guaranteed rate of return
8.25%
8.25%
	
The contribution to the employee’s provident fund (including Employee Pension Scheme) amounted to `421.12 crores 
for the year (previous year `377.52 crores) .
	
Superannuation
	
The Bank contributed `15.04 crores (previous year `15.95 crores) to the superannuation plan for the year.
	
The Bank has also accrued `12.93 crores (previous year `16.09 crores) for the eligible employees who had moved to 
the Bank as part of the Citibank India consumer business acquisition as they are entitled to receive a lumpsum corpus 
amount under a separate Superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of 10 years as a defined contribution plan.
	
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
	
During the year, the Bank contributed `20.67 crores (previous year `15.50 crores) to the NPS for employees who have 
opted for the scheme.
	
Gratuity
	
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Gratuity benefit plan.

Standalone financial statements
425
	
Profit and Loss Account
	
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost
111.00
87.80
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation
63.22
53.62
Expected Return on Plan Assets
(50.19)
(47.05)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year 
7.36
75.61
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition
-
-
Past Service Cost
               -
               -
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(I)]
131.39
169.98
Actual Return on Plan Assets
64.24
   44.60
	
Balance Sheet
	
Details of provision for gratuity
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Fair Value of Plan Assets
914.54
726.76
Present Value of Funded Obligations
(947.96)
(816.79)
Unrecognised past service cost
-
-
Net Asset/ (Liability)
(33.42)
(90.03)
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities
33.42
90.03
Assets
            - 
           -
Net Asset/(Liability) (included under Schedule 11 Other Assets /Schedule 5 –  
Other Liabilities)
  (33.42)
(90.03)
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation
816.79
677.86
Current Service Cost
111.00
87.80
Interest Cost
63.22
53.62
Actuarial Losses/(Gains)
21.42
73.16
Liabilities assumed on acquisition
-
-
Benefits Paid
(64.47)
(75.65)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation
947.96
816.79
	
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Change in the Fair Value of Assets
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets
726.76
678.09
Expected Return on Plan Assets
50.19
47.05
Actuarial Gains/(Losses)
14.06
(2.46)
Contributions by Employer
188.00
79.73
Assets acquired on acquisition
-
-
Benefits Paid
(64.47)
(75.65)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets
914.54
726.76

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
426
	
Experience adjustments
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
31 March, 2023
31 March, 2022
31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations
947.96
816.79
677.86
547.55
516.43
Plan Assets
914.54
726.76
678.09
559.68
508.22
Surplus/(Deficit)
(33.42)
(90.03)
0.23
12.13
(8.21)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities
(5.36)
11.62
3.97
25.88
(9.28)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets
14.06
(2.46)
(19.73)
9.45
6.38
	
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Government securities
53% 
42% 
Bonds, debentures and other fixed income instruments
38%
30%
Money market instruments
3%
2%
Equity shares
4%
3%
Balance in bank & others
2%
23%
	
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date:
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Discount Rate
6.80% p.a.
7.20% p.a.
Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets
7.00% p.a.
7.00% p.a.
Salary Escalation Rate
8.00% p.a.
8.00% p.a.
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years)
24.00%
24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years)
14.00%
14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years)
8.00%
8.00%
	
The estimates of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation take account of inflation, seniority, promotion 
and other relevant factors.
	
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on investments of 
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations. 
	
As the contribution expected to be paid to the plan during the annual period beginning after the balance sheet date is 
based on various internal/external factors, a best estimate of the contribution is not determinable.
	
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
	
Resettlement allowance
	
Profit and Loss account
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank made a provision of `0.21 crores (previous year `Nil) towards liability 
in respect of resettlement allowance based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary. 
	
Balance Sheet
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Current liability
0.46
0.54
Non current liability
    3.24
    2.95
Net Liability as per actuarial valuation (included under Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities)
3.70
3.49

Standalone financial statements
427
	
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date:
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Discount Rate
6.80% p.a.
7.20% p.a.
Salary Escalation Rate
8.00% p.a.
8.00% p.a.
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years)
24.00%
24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years)
14.00%
14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years)
8.00%
8.00%
	
Provision towards probable impact on account of Code of Social Security 2020
	
The Bank on a prudent basis as per internal policy, based on an actuarial valuation  holds a provision of  `367.85 crores 
as on 31 March 2025 (`287.60 crores as on 31 March, 2024) towards the gratuity liability on account of probable 
impact due to Code of Social Security 2020. This is over and above the provisions made in normal course based on 
extant rules and as reported in the above disclosure.
	
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
2.10	Provisions and contingencies
	
a)	
Movement in provision for frauds included under other liabilities is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening balance at the beginning of the year
214.33
178.06
Additions during the year
56.88
54.72
Reductions on account of payments/reversals during the year
(28.52)
(18.45)
Closing balance at the end of the year
242.69
214.33
	
b)	
Other liabilities include provision for reward points made on actuarial basis, the movement of which is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year
997.08
711.54
Provision made during the year
1,024.16
495.53
Reductions during the year
(842.79)
(209.99)
Closing provision at the end of the year
1,178.45
997.08
	
c)	
Movement in provision for other contingencies is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year
7,429.46
3,784.70
Reclassification from provision on standard advances1
-
3,130.18
Additions during the year2
784.19
785.91
Reductions during the year
(463.94)
(271.33)
Closing provision at the end of the year3
7,749.71
7,429.46
	
	
1.	
During the previous year ended 31 March, 2024, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared that COVID-19 is no longer 
a public health emergency of international concern, hence the provision of `5,012 crores carried by the Bank towards COVID-19 
related risks is no longer required. Consequently, post approval of the Board of Directors, the Bank’s management prudently 
elected to carry forward the aforesaid provision amount in its entirety, towards potential expected losses on certain standard 
advances and / or exposures. The said amount was accordingly reclassified to provision for other contingencies and disclosed as 
other liabilities under Schedule 5 of the Balance Sheet as on reporting date
	
	
2.	
Includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation
	
	
3.	
Closing provision includes provision for legal cases, additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan, provision 
on AIF investments, provision for future expected losses and provision for other contingencies 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
428
2.11	Small and Micro Enterprises
	
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from 2 October, 2006, 
certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. Following are the details 
of delayed payments to MSMED registered vendors.
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier
11.94
0.01
12.05
0.00*
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, along with 
the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the due date
3.07
0.02
4.37
0.03
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the due date during the year) but 
without adding the interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid
N.A.
0.30
N.A.
0.29
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowed as a deductible 
expenditure under Section 23
N.A.
0.30
N.A.
0.29
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The above is based on the information available with the Bank which has been relied upon by the auditors.
2.12	Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
	
a)	
Amount required to be spent by the Bank on CSR during the year `425.92 crores (previous year `267.15 crores). 
The details of CSR activities carried out in line with the CSR Policy of the Bank are given below:
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Amount required to be spent by the Bank during the year
425.92
267.15
Amount of expenditure incurred
286.92
217.42
Accrual towards unspent obligations (shortfall) in relation to 
ongoing project 
139.65
51.24
Nature of CSR activities
- Lives & Livelihoods
- Financial Literacy & Financial 
Inclusion
- Education
- Environmental Sustainability
- Humanitarian & Relief
- Health & Nutrition 
- Sports
- Lives & Livelihoods
- Financial Literacy & Financial 
Inclusion
- Education
- Environmental Sustainability
- Humanitarian & Relief
- Health & Nutrition
	
b)	
Amount spent towards CSR during the year and recognized as expense in the profit and loss account on CSR 
related activities is ₹426.57 crores (previous year `268.66 crores), which comprises of following-
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
In cash
Yet to be paid in 
cash (i.e. provision)1
Total
In cash
Yet to be paid in cash 
(i.e. provision)
Total
Construction/acquisition of any asset
-
-
-
-
-
-
On purpose other than above
286.92
139.65
426.57
217.42
51.24
268.66
	
	
1.	
Transferred to the “Axis Bank Limited-Unspent CSR Account for FY 2024-25” to be utilized towards on-going project(s)/program(s) 
in line with the provisions of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021.

Standalone financial statements
429
	
c)	
Movement in the provision towards unspent CSR amount
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening balance at the beginning of the year 
56.68
29.61
Additions during the year
139.65
51.24
Reduction during the year
  (55.46)
 (24.17)
Closing balance at the end of the year
  140.87
   56.68 
2.13	Disclosure required as per Ministry of Corporate Affairs notification dated 24 March, 2021 
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, other than the transactions undertaken in the normal course 
of banking business and in accordance with extant regulatory guidelines and Bank’s internal policies, as applicable:
	
1.	
the Bank has not granted any advance/loans or investments or provided guarantee or security to any other 
person(s) or entities with an understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, to further lend or invest on 
behalf of the Bank or provide guarantee or security or the like to any other person identified by the Bank. 
	
2.	
the Bank has not received any funds from any person(s) or entities with an understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall further lend or invest or provide guarantee or security or the like in any 
other person on behalf of and identified by such person(s)/entities.
2.14	Description of contingent liabilities
	
a)	
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts
	
	
These represent claims filed against the Bank in the normal course of business relating to various legal cases 
currently in progress. These also include demands raised by tax authorities and other statutory authorities which 
are disputed by the Bank. The Bank holds provision of `896.77 crores as on 31 March, 2025 (previous year `369.37 
crores) towards claims assessed as probable.
	
b)	
Liability for partly paid investments
	
	
This represents amounts remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments. 
	
c)	
Liability on account of forward exchange contracts 
	
	
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, including non-deliverable forward (NDF) contracts on its own 
account and on OTC for customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency 
at a future date at the contracted rate. A non-deliverable forward contract is a currency derivatives contract to 
exchange cash flows between the contracted forward exchange rate and prevailing spot rates. The amount of 
contingent liability represents the notional principal of respective forward exchange contracts. With respect to 
the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting transactions in the 
inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a large 
value of gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
	
d)	
Liability on account of derivative contracts 
	
	
The Bank enters into derivative contracts in the form of currency options/swaps, exchange traded currency options, 
non-deliverable derivatives and  interest rate/ currency futures on its own account and on OTC for customers. 
Currency swaps are commitments between two counterparties to exchange streams of interest payments and/or 
principal amounts in different currencies on specified dates over the duration of the swap at a pre-agreed exchange 
rate. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. Interest rate 
futures are standardised, exchange-traded contracts that represent a pledge to undertake a certain interest rate 
transaction at a specified price, on a specified future date. Forward rate agreements (FRA) are financial contracts 
between two counterparties, in which a buyer will pay or receive, on the settlement date, the difference between 
a pre-determined fixed rate (FRA rate) and a reference interest rate, applied on a notional principal amount, for a 
specified forward period. A foreign currency option is an agreement between two parties in which one grants to 
the other the right to buy or sell a specified amount of currency at a specific price within a specified time period 
or at a specified future time. An Exchange Traded Currency Option contract is a standardised foreign exchange 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
430
derivative contract, which gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to exchange money denominated in 
one currency into another currency at a pre-agreed exchange rate on a specified date on the date of expiry. A non-
deliverable option contract is a currency derivatives contract that offers the right, but not the obligation to either 
purchase or sell a currency against another currency and the contract is settled at the difference between the 
contracted exchange rate and prevailing spot rate on the expiry date. Currency Futures contract is a standardised, 
exchange-traded contract, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency at a certain date in the future, at a specified 
price. The amount of contingent liability represents the notional principal of respective derivative contracts. With 
respect to the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting transactions 
in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a 
large value of gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
	
e)	
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents 
	
	
As a part of its banking activities, the Bank issues guarantees on behalf of its customers to enhance their credit 
standing. Guarantees represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the 
customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations. These are stated net of cash margin held with the 
Bank as on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet. 
	
f)	
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
	
	
These include documentary credit issued by the Bank on behalf of its customers and bills drawn by the Bank’s 
customers that are accepted or endorsed by the Bank. These are stated net of cash margin held with the Bank as 
on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet.
	
g)	
Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
	
	
Other items represent outstanding amount of bills rediscounted by the Bank, estimated amount of contracts 
remaining to be executed on capital account, notional principal on account of outstanding Tom/Spot foreign 
exchange contracts, contracts for purchase of investments where settlement is due post balance sheet date, deed 
of indemnity issued to liquidator of overseas subsidiary, contingent liability relating to undertakings issued towards 
settlements under resolution plan in respect of non-performing assets, commitments towards underwriting and 
investment in equity through bids under Initial Public Offering (IPO) of corporates, commitment for investment in 
Associate entity and amount transferred to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF). 
	
The Bank has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for 
material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Bank has reviewed and recorded adequate provision as required under 
any law/accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) 
in the books of account and disclosed the same under the relevant notes in the financial statements, where applicable.
3.	
Previous year figures have been regrouped and reclassified, where necessary to conform to current year’s presentation.
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Consolidated financial statements
431
Independent Auditor’s Report
To The Members of Axis Bank Limited
Report on the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited (‘the Holding Company’ 
or ‘the Bank’), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), and its 
associates, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, and the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended on that date, and notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (‘the 
Consolidated Financial Statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the 
consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information 
of such subsidiaries, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949, as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (‘RBI’), in the manner so required for banking companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2021 (‘AS’) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the Consolidated State of Affairs of the Group 
at 31 March 2025, and its Consolidated Profit, and its Consolidated Cash Flow for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act, and the rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, along with the consideration of audit reports of the other auditors 
referred to in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
	
We have determined the matters described below to be the Key Audit Matters:
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
1.
Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
As the Bank operates on Core Banking Solution across its 
branches and asset centres, the reliability and security of 
Information technology (“IT”) systems plays a key role in the 
business operations. Since large volume of transactions are 
processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that 
applications process data as expected and that changes are 
made in an appropriate manner.
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
involved our specialists to understand the IT control environment, IT 
infrastructure and IT systems.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
432
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
1.
Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
IT infrastructure is critical for smooth functioning and accurate 
accounting and financial reporting process.
Due to the pervasive nature and complexity of the IT 
environment, we have ascertained key IT systems used in 
financial reporting process and its related controls as a key audit 
matter.
We conducted an assessment and identified key IT systems that 
are critical for accounting and financial reporting process and are 
relevant for our audit and tested their internal controls. In particular:
•	
We obtained an understanding of the Bank’s IT control 
environment and key changes during the audit period that may 
be relevant to the audit;
•	
We tested the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the Bank’s General IT controls over the 
key IT systems that are critical to accounting and financial 
reporting. This included evaluation of Bank’s controls for user 
access management, program change management, database 
management, network operations, incident management and 
other IT operations performed by the Bank during the period 
of audit;
•	
We tested key automated and manual business cycle controls 
and logic for system generated reports relevant to the audit; 
and
•	
We also tested compensating controls and performed alternate 
procedures to assess whether there were any unaddressed IT 
risks that would materially impact the financial statements.
2.
Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning on Advances (IRAC) as per the regulatory requirements.
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2025: INR 1,040,811 crore
Provision for Non-Performing Advances as at 31 March 2025: INR 10,272.49 crore
Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(5.3) and Schedule 18(1) Note 1.4 of Standalone Financial Statements
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular issued 
by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on ‘Prudential Norms for 
Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning 
pertaining to Advances’ (the ‘IRAC norms’) and amendments 
thereto (“RBI guidelines”) which prescribes the norms for 
identification and classification of Non-performing Assets 
(‘NPAs’) and the minimum provision required for such assets.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine the 
identification and provision required against NPAs considering 
various quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
As the identification of and provisioning against NPAs requires 
considerable level of management estimation, application of 
various regulatory requirements and its significance to the 
overall audit due to stakeholder and regulatory focus, we have 
identified this as a key audit matter.
Our audit approach included testing the design, operating 
effectiveness of internal controls and substantive audit procedures 
in respect of income recognition, asset classification and provisioning 
pertaining to advances. In particular:
•	
We have evaluated and understood the Bank’s internal control 
system in adhering to the RBI guidelines;
•	
We have analysed and understood key IT systems/ applications 
used and tested the design and implementation and operational 
effectiveness of relevant controls in relation to income 
recognition, asset classification, viz., standard, sub-standard, 
doubtful and loss with reference to RBI guidelines and 
provisioning pertaining to advances; and
•	
We test checked advances to examine the validity and accuracy 
of the recorded amounts, provision for NPAs, and compliance 
with IRAC norms.
•	
Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of disclosures as per 
RBI guidelines relating to NPAs.

Consolidated financial statements
433
The auditors of Axis Securities Limited, vide their audit report dated 15 April 2025, have expressed an unmodified opinion on 
the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the following Key Audit Matter was included in their audit 
report.
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
1.
Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
The Company’s key financial accounting and reporting 
processes are highly dependent on the automated controls 
over the Company’s information system, such that there exists 
a risk that gaps in the Information Technology General Control 
environment could result in a misstatement in the financial 
accounting and reporting records.
Accordingly, we have considered user access management, 
segregation of duties and control over system change over 
key financial accounting and reporting systems, as a key audit 
matter.
Our Audit Approach:
With the assistance of our IT Specialists, we obtained an 
understanding of the Company’s IT Applications, databases and 
operating systems relevant to the financial reporting and the control 
environment.
Our audit approach was combination of test of internal controls and 
substantive procedures on the areas of the IT infrastructure, which 
majorly focused access security (including controls over privileged 
access), program change controls, database management and 
network operations.
In particular, our activity included the following:
General IT controls design, observation and operation:
•	
Understood the changes made in the IT environment during 
the year and ascertained its effect on the financial statements 
controls and accounts.
•	
Tested key controls operating over the information technology 
in relation to financial accounting and reporting systems, 
including system access and system change management, 
program development and computer operations.
User access controls operation:
•	
Obtained management’s evaluation of the access rights granted 
to applications relevant to financial accounting and reporting 
systems and tested resolution of a sample of expectations.
•	
Further, we assessed the operating effectiveness of controls 
over granting, removal and appropriateness of access rights.
Application controls:
•	
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of automated 
controls critical to financial accounting and reporting.
•	
For any identified deficiencies, tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of compensating controls and, where necessary, 
extended the scope of our substantive audit procedures.
•	
Our tests also included testing of the compensating controls 
or alternate procedures to assess whether there were any 
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the Financial 
Statements.
•	
Considered the reports for certain applications on test check 
basis, as issued by the professional consultants with respect to 
VAPT testing done on such applications.
•	
Considered the reports issued by the professional consultants 
with respect to Information Systems (IS) Audit and IT 
Infrastructure of the Company and of certain applications at 
group level relevant for the Company.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
434
The auditors of Axis Finance Limited, vide their audit report dated 17 April 2025, have expressed an unmodified opinion on the 
financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the following Key Audit Matter was included in their audit report.
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
1.
Information Technology (IT) Systems and controls over financial reporting
The Company’s key financial accounting and reporting 
processes are highly dependent on the automated controls 
over the Company’s information system, such that there exists 
a risk that gaps in the Information Technology General Control 
environment could result in a misstatement in the financial 
accounting and reporting records. Proper IT general and 
application controls are essential to ensure accurate, complete 
and consistent data processing for reliable financial reporting. 
Accordingly, we have considered user access management, 
segregation of duties and control over system change over 
key financial accounting and reporting systems, as a key audit 
matter.
Our Audit Approach:
With the assistance of our IT Specialists, we obtained an understanding 
of the Company’s IT Applications, databases and operating systems 
relevant to the financial reporting and the control environment.
Our audit approach was combination of test of internal controls and 
substantive procedures on the areas of the IT infrastructure, which 
majorly focused access security (including controls over privileged 
access), program change controls, database management and 
network operations.
In particular, our activity included the following:
General IT controls design, observation and operation
•	
Understood the changes made in the IT environment during 
the year and ascertained its effect on the financial statements 
controls and accounts.
•	
Tested key controls operating over the information technology in 
relation to financial accounting and reporting systems, including 
system access and system change management, program 
development and computer operations.
User access controls operation:
•	
Obtained management’s evaluation of the access rights granted 
to applications relevant to financial accounting and reporting 
systems and tested resolution of a sample of expectations.
•	
Further, we assessed the operating effectiveness of controls 
over granting, removal and appropriateness of access rights.
Application controls:
•	
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of automated 
controls critical to financial accounting and reporting.
•	
For any identified deficiencies, tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of compensating controls and, where necessary, 
extended the scope of our substantive audit procedures.
•	
Our tests also included testing of the compensating controls 
or alternate procedures to assess whether there were any 
unaddressed IT risks that would materially impact the Financial 
Statements.
Other Information
5.	
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The Other Information comprises the 
information included in the Annual Report but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our Auditors’ 
Report thereon. The Other Information is expected to be made available to us after the date of this Auditors’ Report.
6.	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
7.	
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated.

Consolidated financial statements
435
8.	
When we read the other information, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required 
to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the 
relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
9.	
The Bank’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these 
Consolidated Financial Statements in term of the requirements of the Act, that give a true and fair view of the 
Consolidated State of Affairs, Consolidated Profit and Consolidated Cash Flows of the Group in accordance with 
the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2021, and other accounting principles generally accepted in India and provisions of section 29 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines issued by the RBI from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). The respective 
Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are responsible for maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding 
of the assets of the Group of its associates and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
of the appropriate accounting software for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations including those 
related to retention of audit logs; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which have been used for the purpose of 
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements by the Management and directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.
10.	 In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Management and the Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group and of its associate are responsible for assessing the ability of each company to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Management and the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
11.	 The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are responsible for 
overseeing the financial reporting process of the respective companies included in the Group and associate.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
12.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
13.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
13.1.	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
	
13.2.	 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
	
13.3.	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
436
	
13.4.	 Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on 
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its associates to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to cease to continue as a going concern.
	
13.5.	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
the disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
	
13.6.	 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group and its associate to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of 
such entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors. For 
the other entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, 
such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out 
by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
14.	 We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
15.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
16.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Other Matters
17.	 We did not audit the Financial Statements of nine subsidiaries and two stepdown subsidiaries, whose financial statements 
reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments) of `53,118.53 crore as at 31 March 2025, total revenues (before 
consolidation adjustments) of `8,503.40 crore, total net profit after tax (before consolidation adjustments) of `1,768.24 
crore and net cash inflows (before consolidation adjustments) amounting to `359.39 crore for the year ended on that 
date, as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements have been audited by other 
auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our 
report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the 
reports of the other auditors. Further, of these subsidiaries, one subsidiary is located outside India whose financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in that country and 
which have been audited by its auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in that country. The 
Parent’s management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiary from generally accepted accounting 
principles applicable in that country to generally accepted accounting principles applicable in India. Our audit report in 
so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiary located outside India, is based on the report of other 
auditor. According to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, the financial statements of this 
subsidiary is not material to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
18.	 We did not audit the financial statements of one subsidiary, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before 
consolidation adjustments) of `13.41 crore as at 31 March 2025, total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of 

Consolidated financial statements
437
`12.53 crore, total net profit after tax (before consolidation adjustments) of `0.34 crore and net cash flows amounting 
(before consolidation adjustments) to `411.60 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. These financial statements are unaudited and have been furnished to us by the Board of Directors 
and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of this subsidiary, and our report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiary, is based solely on such unaudited financial statements. This subsidiary is located outside India, whose 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in its country. 
The Parent’s management has converted the financial results of such subsidiary from generally accepted accounting 
principles applicable in its country to generally accepted accounting principles applicable in India. According to the 
information and explanations given to us by the management, the financial statements of this subsidiary is not material 
to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
19.	 The Consolidated Financial Statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of `79.06 crore for the year 
ended 31 March 2025, as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in respect of one associate based on 
management’s best estimate in the absence of the financial information which has been relied upon by us. According 
to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, the financial information of the associate is not 
material to the group.
20.	 Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the 
other auditors and the financial statements certified by the Management.
21.	 Attention is drawn to the fact that the consolidated financial statements of the Bank for the year ended 31 March 2024 
were audited by predecessor auditors whose report dated 24 April 2024 expressed an unmodified opinion on those 
consolidated financial statements.
	
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
22.	 The Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit And Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with 
the provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act.
23.	 Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the reports of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries and associates, we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
	
23.1.	 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief 
were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
	
23.2.	 In our opinion, proper books of accounts as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports 
of the other auditors except for the matters stated in paragraph 24.8 below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
	
23.3.	 The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
23.4.	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with the relevant rules thereunder to the extent they are not inconsistent with 
the accounting policies prescribed by the RBI.
	
23.5.	 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as on 31 March 2025 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies 
incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies incorporated in India are disqualified as on 31 
March 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
438
	
23.6.	 The observation relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith as stated in the 
paragraph 23.2 above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and paragraph 24.8 below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
	
23.7.	 With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Bank, its subsidiary companies incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to 
our separate report in ‘Annexure A’.
	
23.8.	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us and based on reports of the statutory 
auditors of such subsidiary companies incorporated in India which were not audited by us, except in case of an 
associate which is unaudited, the remuneration paid during the current year by the subsidiaries incorporated in 
India to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of and the limits laid down under section 197 of the Act. 
The remuneration paid to any director by the subsidiary companies incorporated in India is not in excess of limit 
laid down under section 197 of the Act. Further, since the Bank is a banking company, as defined under Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949, the reporting under section 197(16) in relation to whether the remuneration paid by the 
Bank is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act and whether any excess remuneration has been 
paid in accordance with the aforesaid section, is not applicable.
24.	 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us and based on the consideration of audit reports of other auditors on separate financial statements 
of such subsidiaries as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph:
	
24.1.	 The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2025 on 
the consolidated financial position of the Group, its associate – Refer Schedule 12 of the consolidated 
financial statements.
	
24.2.	 Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements, as required under the applicable law or 
accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts – Refer Schedule 5 and 12 read with Note No. 1.18 of Schedule 18 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group, its associate and the Group’s share of net profit in 
respect of its associate.
	
24.3.	 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India during the year 
ended 31 March 2025.
	
24.4.	 The respective managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries in India whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries respectively, to best of 
their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank or any of such subsidiaries (‘Ultimate 
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
24.5.	 The respective managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries respectively, to best of their knowledge and belief, that no funds have been received by the Bank 
or any of such subsidiaries from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank or any of such subsidiaries shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

Consolidated financial statements
439
	
24.6.	 Based on such audit procedures, that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
performed by us and those performed by auditors of the subsidiaries incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice that has caused us 
or other auditors to believe that the representation under para 24.4 and 24.5 contain any material misstatement.
	
24.7.	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared and / or paid 
during the year by the Bank is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
	
24.8.	 Based on our examination, which included test checks, and that performed by the respective auditors of the 
subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under 
the Act, except in case of one subsidiary where the component auditor has reported that the audit trail logs 
in Oracle with respect to any modification in the master related to banking details of vendor’s were enabled 
from 16 April 2024 and in case of an associate which is unaudited, the Bank and its subsidiaries have used an 
accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. 
Further, during the course of our audit, we and respective auditors of the above referred subsidiaries did not 
come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
	
	
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved by the Bank and above referred subsidiaries as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention except in case of 2 subsidiaries where the respective component auditors have 
reported that the audit trail was not maintained for previous year and/or part of current year and hence not retained 
in respect of three accounting software of which one has been decommissioned effective 30 September 2023.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDV9966
Gautam Shah
Partner
ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25117348BMOBBW6965
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
440
Annexure ‘A’ to the Independent Auditors’ report on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2025
(Referred to in paragraph ’23.7’ under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
Opinion
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Axis Bank Limited as of and for the year ended 
31 March 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of Axis Bank Limited (‘Bank’) and its subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
2.	
In our opinion, the Bank, and its subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements and such 
internal financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2025, based on the internal controls over financial 
reporting criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of such internal controls 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (‘the Guidance Note’).
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
3.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, 
are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements based on the internal controls over financial reporting criteria established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s responsibility
4.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank, its subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India, internal 
financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit 
in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing (‘SA’), prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, 
to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Those SAs and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of 
their reports referred to in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Consolidated financial statements
441
Meaning of Internal Financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls 
with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that
	
(1)	
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company;
	
(2)	
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the 
company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and
	
(3)	
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
8.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with 
reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matters
9.	
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls system with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to Nine subsidiaries 
and One Stepdown Subsidiary, which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the 
auditors of such subsidiaries incorporated in India.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 107122W/W100672
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
ICAI Membership No: 044577
UDIN: 25044577BMOBDV9966
Gautam Shah
Partner
ICAI Membership No: 117348
UDIN: 25117348BMOBBW6965
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: 24 April 2025

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
442
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Schedule 
No.
As on 
31-03-2025
As on 
31-03-2024
Capital and Liabilities
Capital
1 
619.47 
617.31
Employees' Stock Options Outstanding
1A
1,182.66 
894.49
Reserves & Surplus
2 
185,433.36 
155,511.72
Minority Interest
2A
635.13 
499.44
Deposits
3 
1,170,920.89 
1,067,102.40
Borrowings
4 
220,686.75 
228,199.55
Other Liabilities and Provisions
5 
77,484.35 
65,413.62
Total Capital and Liabilities
 1,656,962.61
1,518,238.53
Assets
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
6 
 73,638.44
86,077.49
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
7 
 29,060.26
30,415.69
Investments
8 
 396,685.07
332,353.74
Advances
9 
 1,081,229.47
999,333.48
Fixed Assets
10 
 6,492.08
5,837.56
Other Assets
11 
 69,568.05
63,931.33
Goodwill on Consolidation
 289.24
289.24
Total Assets
 1,656,962.61
1,518,238.53
Contingent Liabilities
12
 2,878,200.52
1,912,125.37
Bills for Collection
 76,931.20
73,543.06
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Consolidated financial statements
443
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
(` in crores)
Schedule 
No.
Year ended 
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
I
Income
Interest Earned
13
 127,374.09
112,759.05
Other Income
14
 28,542.77
25,230.31
Total Income
 155,916.86
137,989.36
II
Expenditure
Interest Expended
15
 71,036.31
61,390.74
Operating Expenses
16
 39,992.04
37,242.55
Provisions and Contingencies
18 (1.1)
16,776.77
12,932.53
Total Expenditure
 127,805.12
111,565.82
III
Net Profit for the Year
 28,111.74
 26,423.54
Share of earnings/(loss) in Associate
 79.06
 68.71
Consolidated Net Profit for the Year Before Deducting Minority Interest
 28,190.80
 26,492.25
Minority interest
 (135.69)
 (106.05)
IV
Consolidated Net Profit for the Year Attributable to Group
18.1
 28,055.11
 26,386.20
Brought forward consolidated profit/(loss) attributable to the Group
 65,281.17
47,769.25
V
Amount Available for Appropriation/Transfers
 93,336.28
74,155.45
VI
Appropriations/Transfers:
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 6,593.37
6,215.36
Transfer to Special Reserve
 1,024.73
968.13
Transfer to Investment Reserve
 -
242.29
Transfer to General Reserve
 2.16
2.47
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 214.35
139.55
Transfer to Reserve Fund u/s 45 IC of RBI Act, 1934
 130.50
119.50
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 248.00
879.00
Dividend Paid During the Year
18 (1.6)
 309.09
307.98
Balance carried over to Consolidated Balance sheet
 84,814.08
65,281.17
Total
 93,336.28
74,155.45
VII
Earnings Per Equity Share (Face value `2/- per share)
18 (1.4)
Basic (in `)
 90.72
85.62
Diluted (in `)
 90.18
85.01
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
444
(` in crores)
Year ended
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Net profit before taxes
36,586.47
               35,071.95 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation on fixed assets, intangibles and goodwill 
                  1,766.97 
                 1,388.46 
Mark-to-Market (gain)/loss on investments
                   (700.52)
                   (431.32)
Amortisation of premium/discount on investments
                     651.60 
                    894.18 
Provision for Non Performing Assets (including bad debts)/restructured assets
               11,643.69 
                 6,533.43 
Provision on standard assets and other contingencies
                     349.86 
                    424.15 
Profit/(Loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)
                       10.29 
                         4.42 
Employee stock options/units expense
                     430.54 
                    519.57 
(i)
               50,738.90 
               44,404.84 
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/Decrease in investments
              (13,441.73)
             (38,129.02)
(Increase)/Decrease in advances
              (93,762.98)
           (137,622.10)
Increase /(Decrease) in deposits
             103,818.49 
            121,277.69 
(Increase)/Decrease in other assets
                (5,449.90)
                 9,145.17 
Increase/(Decrease) in other liabilities & provisions
               10,628.91 
                 2,599.86 
(ii)
                  1,792.79 
             (42,728.40)
Direct taxes paid
(iii)
                (8,148.01)
               (7,231.11)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii)
(A)
               44,383.68 
               (5,554.67)
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets
                (2,445.54)
               (2,385.41)
Purchase consideration for acquistion of Citibank India Consumer Business
                              - 
                   (329.85)
(Increase)/Decrease in Held to Maturity investments
              (47,170.10)
               (6,381.97)
Increase in investment in Associate
                (1,612.00)
                              - 
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 
                       12.51 
                         9.07 
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities
(B)
              (51,215.13)
               (9,088.16)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments
                              - 
                              - 
Repayment of subordinated debt, Additional Tier I instruments
                   (826.45)
                              - 
Increase/(Decrease) in borrowings (other than subordinated debt, Additional Tier I 
instruments (net))
                (6,686.35)
               21,985.98 
Proceeds from issue of share capital 
                          2.16 
                         1.94 
Proceeds from share premium (net of share issue expenses)
                     683.68 
                    555.26 
Payment of dividend
                   (309.09)
                   (307.98)
Increase in minority interest
                     135.69 
                    106.05 
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities
(C)
                (7,000.36)
               22,341.25 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March, 2025

Consolidated financial statements
445
(` in crores)
Year ended
31-03-2025
Year ended 
31-03-2024
Effect of exchange fluctuation translation reserve
(D)
                       37.33 
                       86.83 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A)+(B)+(C)+(D)
              (13,794.48)
                 7,785.25 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
             116,493.18 
            108,707.93 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
             102,698.70 
            116,493.18 
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement:
1. 	 Cash and cash equivalents includes the following
  	
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India (Refer Schedule 6)
               73,638.44 
               86,077.49 
 	
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice (Refer Schedule 7)
               29,060.26 
               30,415.69 
   	
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
             102,698.70 
            116,493.18 
2. 	 Amount of Corporate Social Responsibility related expenses spent during the year in 
cash `324.26 crores (previous year `247.71  crores)
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
446
Schedules forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet
As on 31 March, 2025
Schedule 1 - Capital
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
Authorised Capital
4,250,000,000 (Previous year - 4,250,000,000) Equity Shares of `2/- each
850.00
 850.00
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Capital
3,097,369,066 (Previous year - 3,086,570,375) Equity Shares of `2/- each fully paid-up
 619.47
 617.31
Schedule 1A - Employees' Stock Options Outstanding
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Opening Balance
 894.49
 426.09
Additions during the year1
 430.53
 519.57
Deductions during the year2
 (142.36)
 (51.17)
Closing Balance
 1,182.66
 894.49
1.	
Represents cost of employee stock options/units recognised during the year
2.	
Represents amount transferred to share premium on account of exercise of employee stock options/units and to General Reserve on lapses 
of employee stock options
Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance
 26,665.70
 20,450.34
Additions during the year
 6,593.37
 6,215.36
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 33,259.07
 26,665.70
II.
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
 3,929.62
 3,790.07
Additions during the year
 214.35
 139.55
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 4,143.97
 3,929.62
III.
Share Premium Account
Opening Balance
 52,540.00
 51,935.78
Additions during the year
 818.10
 604.22
Less: Share issue expenses
 (0.03)
 -
Closing Balance
 53,358.07
 52,540.00
IV.
Reserve Fund u/s 45 IC of RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance
 555.17
 435.67
Additions during the year
 130.50
 119.50
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 685.67
 555.17

Consolidated financial statements
447
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
V.
Revenue and Other Reserves
(A)
Special Reserve
Opening Balance
 2,418.32
 1,450.19
Additions during the year
 1,024.73
 968.13
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 3,443.05
 2,418.32
(B)
Investment Reserve Account
Opening balance
 242.29
 -
Additions during the year
 -
 242.29
Deductions during the year
 (242.29)
 -
Closing Balance
 -
 242.29
(C)
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 437.04
 432.37
Additions during the year
 1,470.28
 4.67
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 1,907.32
 437.04
(D)
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve [Refer Schedule 17 (5.7)]
Opening Balance
 781.41
 694.58
Additions during the year
 37.34
 86.83
Deductions during the year
 -
Closing Balance
 818.75
 781.41
(E)
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening Balance
 2,661.00
 1,782.00
Additions during the year
 248.00
 879.00
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 2,909.00
 2,661.00
(F)
Available for Sale (AFS) Reserve
Opening Balance
 -
 -
Additions during the year
 110.39
 -
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
110.39
 -
(G)
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening Balance
 -
 -
Additions during the year
 (16.01)
 -
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 (16.01)
 -
VI.
Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward
 84,814.08
 65,281.17
Total
 185,433.36
 155,511.72
Schedule 2A - Minority Interest
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Minority Interest at the date on which the parent-subsidiary relationship came into existence
 40.23
 40.23
Subsequent increase
 594.90
 459.21
Closing Minority Interest
 635.13
 499.44

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
448
Schedule 3 - Deposits
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
A.
I.
Demand Deposits
(i) 	
From banks
 4,184.17
 4,695.28
(ii) 	 From others
 161,593.70
 151,659.07
II.
Savings Bank Deposits
 311,389.33
 302,132.58
III.
Term Deposits
(i) 	
From banks
 45,851.59
 43,698.36
(ii) 	 From others
 647,902.10
 564,917.11
Total (I, II and III)1
 1,170,920.89
 1,067,102.40
B.
I.
Deposits of branches in India
 1,140,897.26
 1,052,137.32
II.
Deposits of branches/subsidiaries outside India
 30,023.63
 14,965.08
Total (I and II)1
 1,170,920.89
 1,067,102.40
1.	
Includes deposits under lien amounting to `101,109.57 crores (previous year `86,359.61 crores)
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Borrowings in India
(i) 	
Reserve Bank of India
 -
 -
(ii) 	 Other banks1
 16,285.19
 15,891.26
(iii) 	 Other institutions & agencies2
 168,384.40
 176,230.70
II.
Borrowings outside India3
 36,017.16
 36,077.59
Total (I and II)
 220,686.75
 228,199.55
Secured borrowings included in I & II above
 28,805.17
 22,953.85
1. 	
Borrowings from other banks include Subordinated Debt of `129.10 crores (previous year `15.60 crores) in the nature of Non-Convertible 
Debentures [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.2)(b)]
2. 	
Borrowings from other institutions & agencies include Subordinated Debt of `25,068.86 crores (previous year `24,432.36 crores) in the 
nature of Non-Convertible Debentures and Perpetual Debt amounting to `640.00 crores (previous year `490.00 crores)
	
 [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.2)(b)]
3.	
Borrowings outside india include Additional Tier I Bonds in the nature of Perpetual Debt amounting to $600 million (`5,128.50 crores); 
previous year $600 million (`5,004.30 crores) [Also refer Schedule 18 (1.2)(b)]
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Bills Payable
 6,193.80
 6,713.89
II.
Inter-office adjustments (net)
 -
 -
III.
Interest accrued
 3,810.98
 3,658.22
IV.
General provision against standard assets
 5,217.40
 5,113.43
V.
MTM loss on forex & derivative contracts
 19,928.54
 12,806.36
VI.
Provision for tax (net)
 1,077.99
 -
VII.
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 0.53
 -
VIII. Others (including provisions) [Refer Schedule 18 (1.14)(C)]
 41,255.11
 37,121.72
Total
 77,484.35
 65,413.62

Consolidated financial statements
449
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 8,073.94
 9,634.81
II.
Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
(i) 	
in Current Account
 44,623.50
 48,193.68
(ii) 	 in Other Accounts (includes reverse repo under Liquidity Adjustment Facility)
 20,941.00
 28,249.00
Total (I and II)
 73,638.44
 86,077.49
Schedule 7 - Balances With Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
In India
(i) 	
Balance with Banks
 	
(a) 	 in Current Accounts
 102.82
 721.23
 	
(b) 	 in Other Deposit Accounts
 2,527.19
 2,931.78
(ii) 	 Money at Call and Short Notice
 	
(a) 	 With banks
 -
 100.00
 	
(b) 	 With other institutions
 5,024.02
 6,149.77
Total (i and ii)
 7,654.03
 9,902.78
II.
Outside India
(i) 	
in Current Accounts
 4,545.43
 4,182.88
(ii) 	 in Other Deposit Accounts
 11,954.53
 9,321.34
(iii) 	 Money at Call & Short Notice
 4,906.27
 7,008.69
Total (i, ii and iii)
 21,406.23
 20,512.91
Grand Total (I+II)
 29,060.26
 30,415.69
Schedule 8 - Investments
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Investments in India in -
(i) 	
Government Securities1
 293,400.66
 238,963.72
(ii) 	 Other approved securities
 -
 -
(iii) 	 Shares
 2,745.67
 1,317.01
(iv) 	 Debentures and Bonds
 73,723.01
 74,702.09
(v) 	 Associates2
 2,623.51
 932.45
(vi) 	 Others 
	
[include investments in Mutual Funds, Security Receipts, Alternative Investment Funds, 
Venture Capital Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, Infrastructure Investment Trusts, 
Pass Through Certificates and Private Equity Fund (LLP)]
 8,393.69
 6,769.42
Total Investments in India
 380,886.54
 322,684.69
II.
Investments outside India in -
(i) 	
Government Securities (including local authorities)
 15,435.27
 9,421.86
(ii) 	 Associates
 -
 -
(iii) 	 Others (include Equity Shares and Bonds)
 363.26
 247.19
Total Investments outside India
 15,798.53
 9,669.05
Grand Total (I+II)
 396,685.07
 332,353.74
III.
Investments in India
(i) 	
Gross value of investments
 380,436.45
 323,730.81
(ii)	
Aggregate of provisions for depreciation (includes provision for non-perfoming 
investments)3
 450.09
 (1,046.12)
(iii) 	 Net investments
 380,886.54
 322,684.69

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
450
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
IV.
Investments outside India
(i) 	
Gross Value of Investments
 16,033.99
 9,913.83
(ii)	
Aggregate of provisions for depreciation (includes provision for non-perfoming 
investments)3
 (235.46)
 (244.78)
(iii) 	 Net Investments
 15,798.53
 9,669.05
Grand Total (III+IV)
 396,685.07
 332,353.74
1. 	
Includes securities of face value `1,70,046.36 crores (previous year `1,52,280.19 crores) pledged for availment of fund transfer facility, 
clearing facility, repo contracts and margin requirements
2.	
Includes goodwill on acquisition of Associate amounting to `1,596.73 crores (previous year `368.54 crores)
3.	
Includes MTM gain/(loss) on investments
Schedule 9 - Advances
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
A.
(i)
Bills purchased and discounted
 16,818.24
 16,438.20
(ii)
Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand1
 327,319.22
 278,456.50
(iii)
Term loans
 737,092.01
 704,438.78
Total (i, ii and iii)
 1,081,229.47
 999,333.48
B.
(i)
Secured by tangible assets2
 791,209.33
 699,357.61
(ii)
Covered by Bank/Government Guarantees3
 2,028.63
 4,413.20
(iii)
Unsecured
 287,991.51
 295,562.67
Total (i, ii and iii)
 1,081,229.47
 999,333.48
C.
I.
Advances in India
(i) 	
Priority Sector
 384,558.93
 369,070.11
(ii) 	 Public Sector
 12,080.58
 17,132.94
(iii) 	 Banks
 15,744.40
 15,646.12
(iv) 	 Others
639,134.82
 568,840.19
Total (i, ii, iii and iv)
 1,051,518.73
 970,689.36
II.
Advances Outside India
(i) 	
Due from Banks
337.63
 241.87
(ii) 	 Due from Others -
	
(a) 	 Bills purchased and discounted
 6,406.75
 6,295.36
	
(b) 	 Syndicated loans
 -
 -
	
(c) 	 Others
 22,966.36
 22,106.89
Total (i and ii)
 29,710.74
 28,644.12
Grand Total [C.I.+C.II.]
 1,081,229.47
 999,333.48
1.	
Net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) `20,192.94 crores (previous year `19,999.61 crores), includes lending 
under IBPC `1,350.00 crores (previous year Nil)
2.	
Includes advances against Book Debts
3.	
Includes advances against L/Cs issued by other banks
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Premises
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year
 1,812.59
 1,663.59
Additions during the year
 -
 149.00
Deductions during the year
 -
 -
Depreciation to date
 (299.99)
 (275.29)
Net Block
 1,512.60
 1,537.30

Consolidated financial statements
451
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
IA.
Premises Under Construction
 -
 -
II.
Other fixed assets (including furniture & fixtures and intangibles)
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year
 24,193.67
 22,443.96
Additions on account of acquisition of Citibank India Consumer Business
 -
 (16.69)
Additions during the year1
 2,591.78
 2,128.34
Deductions during the year
 (708.16)
 (361.94)
Depreciation to date
 (21,395.58)
 (20,340.99)
Net Block
 4,681.71
 3,852.68
IIA.
Leased Assets (Premises given on lease)
At cost as on 31 March of the preceding year
 209.60
 209.60
Additions during the year including adjustments
 -
 -
Deductions during the year including provisions
 -
 -
Depreciation to date
 (32.41)
 (28.92)
Net Block
 177.19
 180.68
Grand Total (I,IA,II and IIA)
 6,371.50
 5,570.66
III.
Capital-Work-in Progress (including Leased Assets) Net of Provisions
 120.58
 266.90
Grand Total (I,IA,II,IIA and III)
 6,492.08
 5,837.56
1.	
includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Inter-office adjustments (net)
 -
 -
II.
Interest Accrued
 14,326.54
 11,712.69
III.
Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net of provisions)
 1,200.97
 196.31
IV.
Stationery and stamps
 3.46 
 2.76 
V.
Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1
 -
 -
VI.
Deferred Tax assets (net)
 4,615.16
 5,434.97
VII.
MTM gain on forex & derivative contracts
 20,496.42
 12,430.07
VIII. Others2
 28,925.50
 34,154.53
Total
 69,568.05
 63,931.33
1.	
Represents balance net of provision of `1,855.85 crores (previous year `1,855.85 crores) on Land held as non-banking asset
2.	
Includes Priority Sector Shortfall Deposits of `14,450.47 crores (previous year `21,557.10 crores)
Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
(` in crores)
 As on
31-03-2025
 As on
31-03-2024
I.
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
 1,766.98
 2,594.92
II.
Liability for partly paid investments
 280.63
 125.74
III.
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1
 1,256,588.46
 840,386.68
IV.
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts1
 1,369,593.38
 821,623.49
V.
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) 	 In India
 121,698.90
 106,812.19
(b) 	 Outside India
 19,490.11
 21,330.35
VI.
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
 55,341.43
 59,087.51
VII.
Other items for which the Group is contingently liable
 53,440.63
 60,164.49
Total [Refer Schedule 18 (1.18)]
 2,878,200.52
 1,912,125.37
1. 	
Represents notional amount

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
452
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
(` in crores)
  Year ended 
31-03-2025
   Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Interest/discount on advances/bills
 101,582.06
 90,314.02
II.
Income on investments (including dividend)
 23,057.01
 20,082.39
III.
Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds
 1,243.23
 923.74
IV.
Others
 1,491.79
 1,438.90
Total
 127,374.09
 112,759.05
Schedule 14 - Other Income
(` in crores)
  Year ended 
31-03-2025
   Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Commission, exchange and brokerage
 23,787.78
21,023.88
II.
Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1
 (10.29)
 (4.42)
III.
Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net)
 2,164.88
 1,936.22
IV.
Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net)
 1,344.70
 1,438.12
V.
Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
 700.52
 431.32
VI.
Lease finance income (including management fee, overdue charges and interest on lease rent 
receivables)
 -
 -
VII.
Miscellaneous Income
 555.18
 405.19
Total
 28,542.77
 25,230.31
1. 	
includes provision for diminution in value of fixed assets
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
(` in crores)
  Year ended 
31-03-2025
   Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Interest on deposits
 53,837.24
 45,510.91
II.
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/Inter-bank borrowings
 2,055.96
 2,280.22
III.
Others
 15,143.11
 13,599.61
Total
 71,036.31
 61,390.74
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
(` in crores)
  Year ended 
31-03-2025
   Year ended 
31-03-2024
I.
Payments to and provisions for employees
 13,661.28
 12,193.68
II.
Rent, taxes and lighting
 2,090.16
 1,833.85
III.
Printing and stationery
 373.82
 357.29
IV.
Advertisement and publicity
 175.40
 167.22
V.
Depreciation on Group's property
a) Other than Leased Assets
 1,763.48
 1,384.97
b) On Leased Assets
 3.49
 3.49
VI.
Directors' fees, allowance and expenses
 11.84
 11.30
VII.
Auditors' fees and expenses
 7.42
 9.05
VIII. Law charges
 212.92
 192.76
IX.
Postage, telegrams, telephones etc.
 467.50
 447.75
X.
Repairs and maintenance
 2,329.69
 1,939.23
XI.
Insurance
 1,794.96
 1,610.56
XII.
Other expenditure
 17,100.08
 17,091.40
Total
 39,992.04
 37,242.55
1.	
Includes commission paid to direct selling agents, charges paid to network partners, cashback expenses, fees paid for purchase of Priority 
Sector Lending Certificates, professional fees, technology expenses, business promotion expenses and miscellaneous expenses
Schedules Forming Part of the Consolidated Profit & Loss Account
For the year ended 31 March, 2025

Consolidated financial statements
453
17.	
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
1.	
Principles of consolidation
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of Axis Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), its 
Subsidiaries and Associate (together ‘the Group’). As on 31 March, 2025, the Bank has overseas branches at Singapore, 
DIFC - Dubai and an Offshore Banking Unit at the International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), Gujarat International 
Finance Tec-City (GIFT City), Gandhinagar, India.
	
The Bank consolidates its Subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Standard (‘AS’) 21, Consolidated Financial 
Statements notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 on a line-by-line basis by adding together the 
like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions are 
eliminated on consolidation.
	
Investment in entities where the Bank has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the equity 
method of accounting as prescribed under Accounting Standard (AS) 23 “Accounting for investments in Associates in 
Consolidated Financial Statements” and the pro-rata share of their profit/(loss) is included in the consolidated Profit 
and Loss account.
2.	
Basis of preparation
	
a)	
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and presented under the historical cost convention 
on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India 
(‘GAAP’), unless otherwise stated by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’), to comply with the statutory requirements 
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, notifications, guidelines 
and directives issued by the RBI from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021 to the extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in 
India. Accounting policies applied have been consistent with the previous year except otherwise stated.
	
b)	
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts of the Bank including the following entities:
Name
Relation
Country of 
Incorporation
Ownership 
Interest
Axis Capital Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
Axis Trustee Services Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
75.00%
Axis Asset Management Company Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
75.00%
Axis Finance Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
Axis Securities Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
A.Treds Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
67.00%
Axis U.K. Ltd. (formerly Axis Bank UK Ltd.)
Subsidiary
U.K.
100.00%
Freecharge Business and Technology Services Ltd.
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
Axis Capital USA LLC
Step down subsidiary
USA
100.00%
Axis Pension Fund Management Ltd.
Step down subsidiary
India
47.27%
Axis Max Life Insurance Ltd. (formerly Max Life Insurance Company 
Ltd.)
Associate
India
19.02%
	
c)	
The financial statements of certain subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with notified Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind-AS’). The financial statements of such subsidiaries used for consolidation are 
special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP specified under section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
454
	
d)	
The audited financial statements of the above subsidiaries/step-down subsidiaries have been drawn up to the 
same reporting date as that of the Bank, i.e. 31 March, 2025.
	
e)	
The financial statements of the Bank’s foreign subsidiary, Axis U.K. Limited (‘the Company’) are prepared in 
accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards which have been converted to Indian GAAP for 
the purpose of consolidated financial statements of the Group. Considering that the Company is currently under 
liquidation, the financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a basis other than that of a going 
concern. Basis the size and scale of operations of the Company, the impact of the above is not material on the 
financial statements/position of the Group.
	
f)	
The Group’s share of net profit after tax for the year ended 31 March, 2025 as included in the consolidated 
financial statements in respect of the Associate entity is based on management’s best estimate in the absence 
of financial information of such Associate.
3.	
Use of estimates
	
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with the generally accepted accounting 
principles requires the Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) at the date of the financial statements, revenues and expenses during 
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Management believes that the estimates 
and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Any revisions, as and 
when carried out, to the accounting estimates are recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
4.	
Changes in accounting policies-
	
Effective 1 April, 2024, the Bank has carried out the following changes in its accounting policies:
	
Classification and Valuation of Investments
	
Effective 1 April, 2024 the Bank has adopted the revised framework as detailed in RBI Master Direction on Classification, 
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio issued on 12 September, 2023 (‘RBI Investment Direction 2023’). 
Accordingly, as prescribed under the transition provisions of the aforesaid framework the Bank has (1) transferred the 
balance in Investment Reserve Account as at 31 March, 2024 of `242.29 crores to the general reserve (2) transferred 
an amount of `1,217.86 crores (net of tax) to the general reserve, resulting into increase in the net worth of the Bank, 
on account of reversal of balance in provision for depreciation on investments as at 31 March, 2024 and adjustment for 
the difference between the carrying value of its investment portfolio as per the revised framework and the previous 
carrying value as at 31 March, 2024.
	
Further, in compliance with the said RBI Investment Direction 2023, the valuation gains and losses at the period ended 
31 March, 2025, across all performing investments held under Available for Sale (AFS) category are aggregated and the 
net appreciation amounting to `110.39 crores (net of tax) has been directly recognised in AFS Reserve. The securities 
held in Fair Value through Profit and Loss (‘FVTPL’) category are fair valued at the period ended 31 March, 2025 and 
the net gain of `700.51 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2025, arising on such valuation has been recognised in 
the Profit and Loss Account. Figures for the previous year are not comparable to that extent.
5.	
Significant accounting policies
5.1	
 Investments
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY25
	
Classification
	
In accordance with the RBI Investment Direction, 2023, investments (except investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates) are classified at the time of acquisition as:

Consolidated financial statements
455
	
•	
Held to Maturity (‘HTM’);
	
•	
Available for Sale (‘AFS’) and
	
•	
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL) with Held for Trading (HFT) as a separate investment 
subcategory within FVTPL.
	
Classification of Investments in the Balance sheet
	
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government Securities, 
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures/Associates and 
Others. Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities, Subsidiaries 
and/or Joint Ventures abroad and Others.
	
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted 
for on trade date.
	
i.	
Held to Maturity (‘HTM’)
	
	
The Bank classifies investments as HTM, if both of the following conditions are met:
	
	
•	
The investment is acquired with the intention and objective of holding it to maturity, i.e., the financial 
assets are held with an objective to collect the contractual cash flows; and
	
	
•	
The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on principal outstanding (‘SPPI criterion’) on specified dates.
	
ii.	
Available for Sale (‘AFS’)
	
	
The Bank classifies investments as AFS, if both the following conditions are met:
	
	
•	
The investment is acquired with an objective which is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows 
and selling securities; and
	
	
•	
The contractual terms of the investment give rise to cash flows that meet SPPI criterion on specified dates.
	
	
The Bank, upon initial recognition, may make an irrevocable election to classify an equity instrument as an AFS 
that is not held with the objective of trading.
	
iii.	
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL)
	
	
The investments that are not classified as HTM or AFS are classified as FVTPL. The Bank classifies investments in 
FVTPL category as either FVTPL-Held for Trading (‘HFT’) or FVTPL Non-HFT. Any investment held by the Bank 
for one or more of the following purposes is, when it is first recognised on its books, designated as a FVTPL HFT:
	
	
•	
short-term resale;
	
	
•	
profiting from short-term price movements;
	
	
•	
locking in arbitrage profits; or
	
	
•	
hedging risks that arise from instruments meeting all of the above
	
	
Investments in listed equities, trading-related repo-style transactions, instruments resulting from market-making 
activities, equity investments in a fund are included in FVTPL HFT category. Investments in unlisted equities are 
included in FVTPL Non-HFT category.
	
	
 All other investments forming part of FVTPL category are classified as FVTPL Non-HFT.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
456
	
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
	
All investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures held by Bank are classified under this category separately 
from the aforesaid investment categories.
	
Initial recognition
	
The Bank measures all investments at fair value on initial recognition. Unless facts and circumstances suggest that the 
fair value is materially different from the acquisition cost, it is presumed that the acquisition cost is the fair value.
	
i.	
Acquisition cost
	
	
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are 
charged to the Profit and Loss Account. Broken period interest is charged to the Profit and Loss Account. Cost 
of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
	
ii.	
Day 1 gain/loss
	
	
Day 1 Gain/loss is the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and acquisition cost.
	
	
Any Day 1 gain/loss arising on quoted investments is recognized in the Profit and Loss Account. Any Day 1 loss 
arising from Level 3 investments is recognised immediately. Any Day 1 gains arising from Level 3 investments is 
deferred. In the case of debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is amortized on a straight-line basis up to the maturity 
date (or earliest call date for perpetual instruments), while for unquoted equity instruments, the gain is set aside 
as a liability until the security is listed or derecognised.
	
iii.	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
a.	
Investments classified under the HTM category
	
	
	
Investments held in HTM category are carried at cost and are not Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’) after initial 
recognition. Any discount or premium on the investments under HTM category is amortised over the 
remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected under item II ‘Income on Investments’ 
of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
	
	
	
Realised gains on sale of investments in HTM category are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and 
subsequently appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves) 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Realised losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
	
b.	
Investments classified under AFS category
	
	
	
Investments held in AFS category are fair valued. Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt 
securities under AFS is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is 
reflected in the financial statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest 
Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
	
	
	
The net valuation gains and losses across all performing investments under AFS is aggregated and the net 
appreciation or depreciation (net of tax) is directly credited or debited to the AFS Reserve without routing 
through the Profit & Loss Account.
	
	
	
The AFS-Reserve is reckoned as Common Equity Tier (CET) 1 capital but not available for distribution of 
dividend and coupon on Additional Tier I instruments
	
	
	
On sale or maturity of a debt instrument in AFS category, the accumulated gain/ loss for that security in 
the AFS Reserve is transferred from the AFS Reserve and recognized in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
	
	
In the case of equity instruments designated under AFS at the time of initial recognition, any gain or loss 
on sale of such investments is transferred from AFS Reserve to Capital Reserve in accordance with the RBI 
Investment Direction, 2023.

Consolidated financial statements
457
	
	
c.	
Investments classified under FVTPL category
	
	
	
Investments held under FVTPL category are fair valued and the net gain or loss arising on such valuation 
is directly credited or debited to the Profit and Loss Account.
	
	
	
Any discount or premium on the debt securities under FVTPL category is amortised over the remaining life 
of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the financial statements under item II ‘Income on 
Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8: ‘Investments’.
	
	
d.	
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
	
	
	
The Bank measures all the investments (i.e., including debt and equity) in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures at acquisition cost.
	
	
	
Any discount or premium on the acquisition of debt securities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
is amortised over the remaining life of the instrument. The amortised amount is reflected in the financial 
statements under item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13: ‘Interest Earned’.
	
Valuation
	
The Bank determines the fair values of its investments according to the following hierarchy:
	
Level 1: Valuation based on quoted market price: These investments are valued with quoted prices (unadjusted) for 
identical instruments in active markets that the Bank can access at the measurement date.
	
Level 2: Valuation based on using observable inputs: These investments are valued with inputs other than quoted 
prices included within Level 1, that are observable, either directly or indirectly.
	
Level 3: Valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: These investments are valued using valuation 
techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
	
The fair value of various types of instruments is determined as per the valuation norms laid down in RBI Investment 
Direction 2023, as follows:
	
•	
The fair value of quoted investments (other than discounted instruments) included in the AFS and FVTPL 
categories is considered as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices, yield and spread 
matrix declared by the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/Financial 
Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically.
	
•	
Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted 
instruments, are valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
	
•	
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by 
the mutual fund.
	
•	
Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) and Unquoted Alternative Investment Fund (AIFs) are valued at Net Asset 
Value (NAV) declared by the funds. Where an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of its investments 
by an independent valuer as per the frequency mandated by SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 
2012 the value of its units is treated as Re. 1. In case AIF is not registered under SEBI (Alternative Investment 
Fund) Regulations, 2012 and the latest disclosed valuation of its investments by an independent valuer precedes 
the date of valuation by more than 18 months, the value of its units is treated as Re. 1.
	
•	
Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures category are assessed for impairment to determine 
permanent diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.
	
•	
The fair value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the 
norms prescribed by the RBI/FIMMDA/FBIL as under:

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
458
	
	
a)	
The fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio 
(‘SLR’) securities forming part of AFS, FVTPL-HFT and FVTPL Non-HFT categories are computed as per 
the rates published by FIMMDA/FBIL.
	
	
b)	
In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted 
bonds, debentures and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue 
beyond 90 days), the market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for such securities as 
published by FIMMDA/FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the 
instrument. The matrix for credit risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual 
maturity issued by FIMMDA/FBIL is adopted for this purpose.
	
	
c)	
In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the 
valuation is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
	
	
d)	
Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) are valued as per extant RBI/FIMMDA guidelines.
	
	
e)	
Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the 
stock exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is 
ascertained from the company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance 
Sheet is not available, the shares are valued at Re. 1 per company.
	
	
f)	
Valuation of investments in private equity funds and limited liability partnership funds is based on valuation 
of their underlying exposures.
	
	
g)	
Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust 
(‘INVIT’) are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not 
traded on any stock exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) 
submitted by the trust.
	
	
h)	
Investments in Government guaranteed Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued periodically by reckoning the 
Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Reconstruction Company (‘ARC’) based on the recovery 
ratings received for such instruments. Any Government guaranteed SRs outstanding after the final 
settlement of the Government guarantee or the expiry of the guarantee period, whichever is earlier, are 
valued at one rupee (`1).
	
	
	
Investments in other SRs are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing ARC or net book value of loans 
transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal assessment on case to case basis, 
whichever is lower. Investments in such Security Receipts where original maturity period has expired are 
valued at one rupee (`1). In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than 10 percent of the 
stressed assets sold by the Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of face value of 
the SRs reduced by the provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms as 
applicable to the underlying loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
	
Investment asset classification and provisioning
	
Investments under HTM, AFS and FVTPL category are subjected to income recognition, asset classification and 
provisioning norms of RBI. Non-performing Investments (NPIs) are identified and provision is made thereon in the 
Profit and Loss account, as per the RBI guidelines. Once an investment become NPI, the Bank segregates it from rest of 
the portfolio and does not consider it for netting valuation gains and losses. A NPI investment is segregated from other 
investments within the same category [i.e., HTM, AFS, or FVTPL] under which it was classified at initial recognition. 
Interest on NPIs is not recognized in the Profit and Loss Account until received. MTM appreciation in case of NPIs over 
and above the book value is not recognized and ignored.
	
Reclassification between categories
	
Reclassification of investments between categories (viz. HTM, AFS and FVTPL) if any is carried out only after, prior 
approval of Board of Directors and RBI and the same is accounted for in accordance with the RBI guidelines.

Consolidated financial statements
459
	
Short sales
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated 
securities. Such short positions are categorised under FVTPL category and netted off from investments in the Balance 
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under FVTPL portfolio and the resultant 
MTM gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.
	
Significant accounting policies for investments applicable for FY24
	
Classification
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are classified at the time of purchase as:
	
•	
Held for Trading (‘HFT’);
	
•	
Available for Sale (‘AFS’); and
	
•	
Held to Maturity (‘HTM’).
	
	
Investments that are held principally for sale within a short period are classified as HFT securities. As per the RBI 
guidelines, HFT securities, which remain unsold for a period of 90 days are transferred to AFS securities.
	
	
Investments that the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified under the HTM category. Investments in 
the equity of subsidiaries/joint ventures and investments under TLTRO guidelines are categorised as HTM in 
accordance with the RBI guidelines.
	
	
All other investments are classified as AFS securities.
	
	
For disclosure in the Balance Sheet, investments in India are classified under six categories - Government 
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures 
and Others. Investments made outside India are classified under three categories - Government Securities, 
Subsidiaries and/or Joint Ventures abroad and Others.
	
	
All investments are accounted for on settlement date, except investments in equity shares which are accounted 
for on trade date.
	
Transfer of security between categories
	
Transfer of security between categories of investments is accounted for as per the RBI guidelines.
	
Acquisition cost
	
Costs incurred at the time of acquisition, pertaining to investments, such as brokerage, commission etc. are charged to 
the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Broken period interest on debt instruments and government securities is charged to the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Cost of investments is computed based on the weighted average cost method.
	
Valuation
	
Investments classified under the HTM category: Investments are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than 
the face value, in which case the premium is amortised over the period remaining to maturity on a constant yield 
to maturity basis. Such amortization of premium is adjusted against interest income under the head ‘Income from 
Investments’ under Schedule 13 in Profit and Loss Account. As per the RBI guidelines, discount on securities held 
under HTM category is not accrued and such securities are held at the acquisition cost till maturity.
	
Investments in subsidiaries/joint ventures are categorised as HTM and assessed for impairment to determine 
permanent diminution, if any, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and suitable provisions are made.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
460
	
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Investments under these categories are marked to market. 
The market/fair value of quoted investments included in the AFS and HFT categories is the market price of the scrip 
as available from the trades/quotes on the stock exchanges or prices declared by the Fixed Income Money Market 
and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’)/ Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (‘FBIL’), periodically. Net 
depreciation, if any, within each category of each investment classification is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. 
The net appreciation if any, under each category of each investment classification is ignored. Net depreciation on each 
type of investments falling under the residual category of ‘Others’ (i.e. mutual funds, Pass Through Certificates (PTCs), 
security receipts etc.) is not offset against gain in another class of investment falling within the ‘Others’ category. 
Further, in case of standard investments classified as weak as per the Bank’s internal framework (including certain 
internally unrated investments), the Bank recognizes net depreciation without availing the benefit of set-off against 
appreciation within the same class of investments as permitted under the extant RBI circular. The depreciation on 
securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is provided in accordance with the RBI guidelines. 
Provision for depreciation on investments is classified under Schedule-14 ‘Other Income’. The book value of individual 
securities is not changed consequent to the periodic valuation of investments.
	
Non-performing investments are identified and provision is made thereon as per the RBI guidelines. Provision for 
depreciation on such non-performing investments is not set off against the appreciation in respect of other performing 
securities as per RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing investments is not recognized in the Profit and Loss 
Account until received.
	
Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted instruments, 
are valued at carrying cost which includes discount accreted over the period to maturity.
	
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) declared by the mutual fund.
	
Market value of investments where current quotations are not available, is determined in accordance with the norms 
prescribed by the RBI as under:
	
The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (‘SLR’) 
securities forming part of AFS and HFT categories is computed as per the rates published by FIMMDA/ FBIL.
	
In case of special bonds issued by the Government of India that do not qualify for SLR purposes, unquoted bonds, 
debentures, and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue beyond 90 days), the 
market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity (‘YTM’) for Government Securities as published by FIMMDA/
FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the instrument. The matrix for credit 
risk mark-up for each category and credit ratings along with residual maturity issued by FIMMDA/FBIL is adopted 
for this purpose.
	
In case of bonds & debentures where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the valuation is 
in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI.
	
PTC and Priority Sector PTCs are valued as per extant FIMMDA guidelines.
	
Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the stock 
exchanges, are valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is ascertained from 
the Company’s latest Balance Sheet (not older than 18 months). In case the latest Balance Sheet is not available, the 
shares are valued at `1 per company.
	
Investments in listed instruments of Real Estate Investment Trust (‘REIT’)/Infrastructure Investment Trust (‘INVIT’) 
are valued at the closing price on the recognised stock exchange. In case the instruments are not traded on any stock 
exchange, valuation is carried out based on the latest NAV (not older than 1 year) submitted by the trust.
	
Units of Venture Capital Funds (‘VCF’) / Alternative Investment Funds (‘AIF’) held under AFS category where current 
quotations are not available are valued based on NAV as published in the latest audited financial statements of the 
fund or NAV as provided by the fund. In case the audited financials are not available for a period beyond 18 months, 
the investments are valued at `1 per VCF/AIF. Investment in unquoted VCF/AIF may be categorized under HTM 
category for the initial period of three years and are valued at cost as per the RBI guidelines.

Consolidated financial statements
461
	
Investments in Security Receipts (‘SRs’) are valued as per the NAV declared by the issuing Asset Reconstruction 
Company (‘ARC’) or net book value of loans transferred or estimated recoverable value based on Bank’s internal 
assessment on case to case basis, whichever is lower. In case of investments in SRs which are backed by more than 10 
percent of the stressed assets sold by the Bank, the valuation of such SRs is additionally subject to a floor of face value 
of the SRs reduced by the provisioning rate as per the extant asset classification and provisioning norms as applicable 
to the underlying loans, assuming that the loan notionally continued in the books of the Bank.
	
Disposal of investments
	
Investments classified under the HTM category: Realised gains are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and 
subsequently appropriated to Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserves) in accordance 
with the RBI guidelines. Losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Investments classified under the AFS and HFT categories: Realised gains/losses are recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account.
	
Short sales
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated 
securities. Such short positions are categorised under HFT category and netted off from investments in the Balance 
Sheet. These positions are marked-to-market along with the other securities under HFT portfolio and the resultant 
Mark-to-Market (‘MTM’) gains/losses are accounted for as per the relevant RBI guidelines for valuation of investments.
	
Subsidiaries
	
Investments are initially recognised at cost which comprises purchase price and directly attributable acquisition 
charges such as brokerage, fees and duties.
	
Investments which are readily realisable and intended to be held for not more than one year from the date on 
which such investments are made, are classified as current investments. All other investments are classified as long 
term investments.
	
Current investments are carried in the financial statements at lower of cost and fair value determined on an individual 
investment basis. Any reduction in the carrying amount and any reversal of such reductions are charged or credited to 
the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Long term investments are stated at cost. Provision is made to recognise a decline, other than temporary, in the value 
of such investments.
	
On disposal of an investment, the difference between its carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is charged or 
credited to the Profit and Loss Account.
5.2	
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Repurchase transactions (‘Repos’)
	
Repurchase transactions in Government securities and corporate debt securities including those conducted under the 
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Marginal Standby Facility (‘MSF’) with RBI are accounted for as collateralised 
borrowings. Accordingly, securities given as collateral under an agreement to repurchase them, continue to be held 
under the investment account and the Bank continues to accrue the coupon on the security during the repo period. 
Borrowing cost on such repo transactions is accounted as interest expense in “Schedule 15 – Interest Expended” in 
the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Reverse repurchase transactions (‘Reverse repos’)
	
Reverse repurchase transactions with RBI with original maturity upto 14 days, including those conducted under the 
Liquidity Adjustment Facility (‘LAF’) and Standing Deposit Facility (‘SDF’) are accounted for as collateralised lending 
under “Schedule 6 - Balances with RBI - in Other Accounts”. Reverse repurchase transactions with banks and other 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
462
financial institutions with original maturity upto 14 days, are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule 7 
- Balances with Banks and Money at call and short notice”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest 
income under “Schedule 13 – Interest Earned – Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and Other Inter-bank 
Funds” in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Reverse repos with original maturity of more than 14 days are accounted for as collateralised lending under “Schedule 
9 - Advances”. Revenue on such reverse repos is accounted for as interest income under “Schedule 13 - Interest Earned 
– Interest/discount on advances/bills” in the Profit and Loss account.
5.3	
Advances
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Classification and measurement of advances
	
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and are 
stated net of bills rediscounted, inter-bank participation certificates, specific provisions made towards NPAs, interest 
in suspense for NPAs, claims received from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation, provisions for funded interest on 
term loans classified as NPAs and floating provisions. Structured collateralised foreign currency loans extended to 
customers and deposits received from the same customer are reported on a net basis.
	
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank participation with and without risk. In accordance with the RBI 
guidelines, in the case of participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued by the Bank is 
reduced from advances and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of the participation is classified 
under advances. In the case of participation without risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank is 
classified under borrowings and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of participation is shown as due 
from banks under advances.
	
Non-performing advances and provision on non-performing advances
	
NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by the RBI. Advances 
held at the overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than 
record of recovery, but which are standard as per the RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount 
outstanding in the host country. NPAs are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
	
Provisions for NPAs are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets at rates as prescribed by the RBI with the exception 
of schematic retail advances, agriculture advances and advances to Commercial Banking segment. In respect of 
schematic retail advances, provisions are made in terms of a bucket-wise policy upon reaching specified stages of 
delinquency (90 days or more of delinquency) under each type of loan, which satisfies the RBI prudential norms on 
provisioning. Provisions in respect of Commercial Banking segment advances and agriculture advances classified into 
sub-standard and doubtful assets are made at rates which are higher than those prescribed by the RBI.
	
Provisions for advances booked in overseas branches, which are standard as per the RBI guidelines but are identified 
as impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than record of recovery, are made as per the host 
country regulations.
	
In case of NPAs referred to the National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 (‘IBC’) where resolution plan or liquidation order has been approved by NCLT, provision is maintained at higher 
of the requirement under the RBI guidelines or the likely haircut as per resolution plan or liquidation order.
	
Loans reported as fraud are classified as loss assets, and fully provided for immediately without considering the 
value of security.
	
Provision on restructured assets
	
Restructured assets including compromise settlements where the time for payment of the agreed settlement 
amount exceeds three months are classified and provided for in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI 
from time to time.

Consolidated financial statements
463
	
In respect of advances where resolution plan has been implemented under the RBI guidelines on “Resolution Framework 
for COVID 19-related Stress” and “Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Sector – Restructuring of Advances”, 
provisions are maintained as per the internal framework of the Bank at rates which are higher than those specified 
under the extant RBI guidelines. Restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
	
Provisions held on restructured assets are reported in Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
	
Write-offs and recoveries from written-off accounts
	
Write-offs are carried out in accordance with the Bank’s policy.
	
Amounts recovered against debts written off are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as a credit to Provision 
and Contingencies.
	
Appropriation of funds for standard advances
	
In case of Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) based standard retail advances, funds received from customers are 
appropriated in the order of principal, interest and charges. In case of other standard advances, funds received from 
customers are appropriated in the order of charges, interest and principal.
	
Other provisions on advances classified under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’ in the Balance Sheet
	
The Bank recognises additional provisions as per the RBI’s guidelines on accounts in default and with aggregate 
exposure above the threshold limits as laid down in the guidelines where the resolution plan is not implemented within 
the specified timelines. These provisions are written back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
	
In respect of borrowers classified as non-cooperative or wilful defaulters the Bank makes accelerated provisions as per 
the extant RBI guidelines.
	
In the case of one-time settlements with borrowers that are entered into but not closed as on the reporting date, the 
Bank makes provisions which is the higher of (i) the provision required based on asset classification; and (ii) the amount 
of contracted sacrifice, on a portfolio basis.
	
The Bank makes incremental provisioning (determined based on a time scale and on occurrence of predefined events) 
on all outstanding advances and investments relating to borrowers tagged as Red Flagged Accounts (‘RFA’).
	
For entities with Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure (‘UFCE’), provision is made in accordance with the guidelines 
issued by the RBI, which requires ascertaining the amount of UFCE, estimating the extent of likely loss and estimating 
the riskiness of the unhedged position. Further, incremental capital is maintained in respect of such borrower counter 
parties in the highest risk category, in line with stipulations by the RBI.
	
The Bank maintains provisions for incremental exposure of the banking system to specified borrowers beyond the 
Normally Permitted Lending Limit (‘NPLL’) in proportion to the Bank’s funded exposure to the specified borrowers as 
per the RBI guidelines.
	
The Bank maintains a general provision on standard advances at the rates prescribed by the RBI. In respect of advances 
to stressed sectors, such general provision is made at rates higher than the regulatory minimum as per the internal 
policy of the Bank. The general provision on corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’ 
and all Special Mention Accounts-2 (‘SMA-2’) advances as reported to Central Repository of Information on Large 
Credits (‘CRILC’), maintained at rates that are higher than those prescribed by RBI. In case of overseas branches, 
general provision on standard advances is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the respective overseas 
regulator or by the extant RBI guidelines. The Bank also maintains general provision on positive Mark-to-Market 
(MTM) on derivative transactions at the rates prescribed under the extant RBI guidelines.
	
The Bank also maintains additional provision on standard accounts in a particular borrower group where one or 
more entity in the group is classified as NPA, subject to the aggregate outstanding of such entities being above a 
certain threshold limit. Such provision is in addition to and at rates higher than the provision for standard assets as 
prescribed by RBI.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
464
	
The Bank also maintains provision on non-funded outstanding in relation to NPAs, prudentially written off accounts, 
corporate standard advances internally rated ‘BB and Below’ or ‘Unrated’ and all SMA-2 advances as reported to CRILC.
	
Under its home loan portfolio, the Bank offers housing loans with certain features involving waiver of EMIs for a 
specific period subject to fulfilment of certain conditions by the borrower. The Bank makes provision against the 
probable loss that could be incurred in future on account of these waivers to eligible borrowers, based on actuarial 
valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
	
As approved by the Board of Directors, the Bank holds prudent provision under other contingencies of `5,012 crores, 
towards potential expected losses on certain standard advances and / or exposures.
	
Axis Finance Ltd.
	
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and are stated 
net of specific provisions made towards NPAs. Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets 
based on the criteria stipulated by the RBI.
	
Provisions for standard assets and NPAs are made at rates as prescribed by the Company policy which is over and 
above the minimum requirements under the RBI guidelines.
5.4	
Country risk
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
In addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are held for 
individual country exposure (other than for home country as per the RBI guidelines). Such provisions are held only in 
respect of those countries where the net funded exposure of the Bank exceeds 1% of its total assets. For this purpose, 
the countries are categorized into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderate, high, very high, restricted 
and off-credit as per internal parameters in accordance with RBI guidelines. Provision is made on exposures exceeding 
180 days on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 100%. For exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 
days, 25% of the normal provision requirement is held. If the net funded exposure of the Bank in respect of each 
country does not exceed 1% of the total assets, no provision is maintained on such country exposure in accordance 
with RBI guidelines. Indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure. This provision is classified under Schedule 
5 – Other Liabilities and Provisions in the Balance Sheet.
5.5	
Securitisation and transfer of assets
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Securitisation of Standard Assets
	
The Bank enters into purchase/sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment/Special Purpose Vehicle 
(‘SPV’). In most cases, post securitisation, the Bank continues to service the loans transferred to the assignee/SPV. The 
Bank also provides credit enhancement in the form of cash collaterals and/or by subordination of cash flows to Senior 
Pass Through Certificate holders. In respect of credit enhancements provided or recourse obligations (projected 
delinquencies, future servicing etc.) accepted by the Bank, appropriate provision/disclosure is made at the time of sale 
in accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as notified under Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021.In accordance with RBI guidelines on Securitisation of Standard Assets, any loss, profit or 
premium realised at the time of the sale is accounted for in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during 
which the sale is completed. However, in case of unrealised gains arising out of sale of underlying assets to the SPV, 
the profit is recognised in Profit and Loss Account only when such unrealised gains associated with such income is 
redeemed in cash.
	
Transfer of Loan Exposures
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines on Transfer of Loan exposures, any profit or loss arising post transfer of loans, which 
is realised, is accounted for and reflected in the Profit & Loss Account for the accounting period during which the 

Consolidated financial statements
465
transfer is completed. Loans acquired are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the outstanding principal at 
the time of the transfer, in which case the premium paid is amortised based on a straight line method.
	
Axis Finance Limited
	
The Company enters into purchase/sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment/securitisation. The 
loans are recognised/derecognised in the books based on the risk and reward associated with the underlying loans in 
compliance with RBI guidelines on ‘Transfer of loan assets’ and ‘Securitization of assets’.
5.6	
Priority Sector Lending Certificates
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (‘PSLCs’). In the case 
of a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction 
the Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through the RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of loan 
assets in PSLC transactions.
5.7	
Translation of Foreign Currency items
	
Group
	
In respect of domestic operations, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for at the rates 
prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the closing 
rates of exchange as notified by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India (‘FEDAI’). All profits/losses resulting 
from year end revaluations are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Financial statements of foreign branches classified as non-integral foreign operations as per the RBI guidelines, are 
translated as follows:
	
Assets and liabilities (both monetary and non-monetary as well as contingent liabilities) are translated at closing 
exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the Balance Sheet date.
	
Income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the date of the transactions.
	
All resulting exchange differences are accumulated in a separate ‘Foreign Currency Translation Reserve’ (FCTR) till 
the disposal of the net investments. Any realised gains or losses on such disposal are recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account except for those that relate to repatriation of accumulated profits which are reclassified from FCTR to 
‘Balance in Profit and Loss Account’ under Schedule 2 – Reserves and Surplus in the Balance Sheet.
	
Contingent liabilities on account of forward exchange and derivative contracts, guarantees, acceptances, endorsements 
and other obligations denominated in foreign currencies are disclosed at closing rates of exchange notified by FEDAI.
5.8	
Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Derivative transactions comprise of forward contracts, swaps and options which are disclosed as contingent liabilities. 
The forwards, swaps and options are categorised as trading or hedge transactions.
	
Trading derivatives
	
Trading derivative contracts are revalued based on actual traded and/or derived from curves published by external 
market sources or FBIL with the resulting unrealised gain or loss being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and correspondingly in other assets (representing positive MTM) and in other liabilities (representing negative MTM) 
on a gross basis.
	
Outstanding forward exchange contracts including tom/spot contracts (excluding swaps undertaken to hedge foreign 
currency assets/liabilities and funding swaps) as at Balance Sheet date are revalued at closing spot and forward rates 
as applicable as notified by FEDAI/FBIL and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. Valuation is 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
466
considered on present value basis by discounting the forward value till cash date using Alternative Reference Rate 
(‘ARR’) curve and converting the foreign currency amount using the respective spot rates as notified by FEDAI/FBIL. 
The resulting gains or losses on revaluation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Currency futures contracts are mark-to-market using the daily settlement price on a trading day, which is the closing 
price of the respective futures contracts on that day. While the daily settlement price is computed based on the last 
half an hour weighted average price of such contracts, the final settlement price is taken as the RBI reference rate on 
the last trading day of the futures contracts or as may be specified by the relevant authority from time to time. All 
open positions are marked-to-market based on the settlement price and the resultant MTM profit/loss is daily settled 
with the exchange.
	
Valuation of Exchange Traded Currency Options (‘ETCO’) is carried out using internal pricing models and valuation 
of Interest Rate Futures (‘IRF’) is carried out on the basis of the daily settlement price of each contract provided 
by the exchange.
	
Premium on options is recognized as income/expense on expiry or early termination of the transaction.
	
Hedging derivatives including funding swaps
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading (including funding swaps that are entered into to establish 
the amount of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction), and are outstanding at 
the Balance Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate.
	
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line 
basis as expense or income over the life of the contract.
	
For hedge transactions through other derivatives, the Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception 
of transaction itself. The effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter. 
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognized 
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of hedging instrument for 
the effective portion is recognised in Schedule 2- ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under ‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’ and the 
ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The 
accumulated balance in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the Profit 
and Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Provisioning
	
Pursuant to the RBI guidelines any receivables under derivative contracts comprising of crystallised receivables as 
well as positive MTM in respect of future receivables which remain overdue for more than 90 days are reversed 
through the Profit and Loss account and are held in a separate suspense account under Schedule 5 – ‘Other Liabilities 
and Provisions’.
	
Axis Finance Limited
	
The Company enters into forward contracts to hedge the foreign currency risk of firm commitments and highly 
probable forecast transactions. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are 
entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting 
gain or loss is recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and 
effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the Profit and Loss Account depends 
on the nature of the hedging relationship and the nature of the hedged item.
	
Cash Flow Hedges
	
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that (i) is attributable to a particular risk 
associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or a firm commitment in 
respect of foreign currency and (ii) could affect the statement of profit and loss. Under a cash flow hedge, the hedging 

Consolidated financial statements
467
instrument is measured at fair value, but any gain or loss that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognized 
in equity, e.g., cash flow hedge reserve. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is 
recognized immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Fair Value Hedges
	
A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised 
firm commitment, or an identified portion of such an asset, liability or firm commitment, that is attributable to a 
particular risk and could affect the statement of profit and loss. When applying fair value hedge accounting, the 
hedging instrument is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
The hedged item is remeasured to fair value in respect of the hedged risk even if normally it is measured at cost, e.g., 
a fixed rate borrowing. Any resulting adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item related to the hedged risk 
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account even if normally such a change may not be recognised, e.g., for inventory 
being hedged for fair value changes. The fair value changes of the hedged item and the hedging instrument will offset 
and result in no net impact in the Profit and Loss Account except for the impact of ineffectiveness.
5.9	
Revenue recognition
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with AS–9, Revenue Recognition as notified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and the RBI guidelines except in the case of interest income on non-performing 
assets where it is recognised on receipt basis as per the income recognition and asset classification norms of RBI. Any 
discount or premium on the investments in debt-securities is amortised as interest income over the remaining life of 
the instrument. Interest income on investments in PTCs is recognized on a constant yield basis.
	
Commission on Guarantees and Letters of Credit (‘LC’) is recognised on a pro-rata basis over the period of the 
Guarantee/LC. Locker rent is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of contract. Annual fee for credit 
cards and debit cards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of service. Arrangership/syndication fee is 
accounted for on completion of the agreed service and when the right to receive is established.
	
Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate collection. 
Penal charges on loans are recognized as income on actual realization.
	
Other fees and commission income are recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate 
collection. Payouts made to network partners and entities with co-branded arrangements, in the nature of sharing of 
fees or based on driver of volume/spends are netted off from the respective fee and commission income.
	
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
	
Gain/loss on sell down of loans and advances through direct assignment is recognised at the time of sale.
	
Fees paid for purchase of PSLCs are amortised on straight-line basis over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Other 
Expenditure’ under Schedule 16 of the Profit and Loss Account. Fees received on sale of PSLCs are amortised 
on straight-line basis over the tenor of the certificate as ‘Miscellaneous Income’ under Schedule 14 of the Profit 
and Loss Account.
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines on sale of non-performing advances, if the sale is at a price below the net book 
value (i.e. book value less provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and Loss Account. If the sale is for a 
value higher than the net book value, the excess provision is credited to the Profit and Loss Account in the year the 
amounts are received.
	
The Bank deals in bullion on a consignment basis. The difference between the amount recovered from customers and 
cost of bullion is accounted for at the time of sale to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and 
lending basis and the interest paid/received is accounted for on an accrual basis.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
468
	
Subsidiaries
	
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the 
revenue can be reliably measured. Fee income is recognised on the basis of accrual when all the services are performed 
and there is reasonable certainty of ultimate collection.
	
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis.
	
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
	
Income from sale of investments is determined on weighted average basis and recognised on the trade date basis.
	
Axis Capital Limited
	
Brokerage income in relation to stock broking activity is recognised as per contracted rates at the execution of 
transactions on behalf of the customers on a trade date basis. Gains/losses on dealing in securities are recognised on 
a trade date basis.
	
Revenue from issue management, loan syndication, and financial advisory services is recognised based on the stage of 
completion of assignments and terms of agreement with the client.
	
Selling commissions/brokerage generated from primary market operations i.e. procuring subscriptions from investors 
for public offerings of companies, mutual funds, etc. are recorded on determination of the amount due to the Company, 
once the allotment of securities are completed.
	
Axis Trustee Services Limited
	
Annual fees for trusteeship services and servicing fees are recognised, on a straight line basis, over the period when 
services are performed. Initial acceptance fee for trusteeship services is recognised as and when the ‘Offer Letter’ for 
the services to be rendered is accepted by the customer.
	
A provision for doubtful debts is recognized where, in the case of Initial Acceptance Fees, the receivables are not 
realized within 90 days from the date of invoice, and in the case of Annual Fees, the receivables are not realized within 
90 days from the end of the period for which the invoice is issued. Where doubtful debt remains unrecovered till the 
end of the year, the same is written off and reversed from the debtors account. Specific provisions are created in 
certain cases where recovery is assessed as doubtful even before the due date.
	
Realised gains and losses on mutual funds are dealt with in the Profit and Loss Account. The cost of units in mutual 
fund sold is determined on FIFO basis for the purpose of calculating gains or losses on sale/redemption of such units.
	
Axis Asset Management Company Limited
	
Management fees are recognised on accrual basis. The fees charged are in accordance with the terms of scheme 
information documents of respective schemes and are in line with the provisions of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 
1996 as amended from time to time.
	
Management fees from Portfolio Management Services, Alternate Investment Fund and Investment advisory fees-
offshore are recognized on an accrual basis as per the terms of the contract with the customers.
	
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
	
Trustee fee is recognised on accrual basis, at the specific rates/amount approved by the Board of Directors of the 
Company, within the limits specified under the Deed of Trust, and is applied on the net assets of each scheme of 
Axis Mutual Fund.
	
Axis Finance Limited
	
Interest income is recognized on an accrual basis except in the case of interest income on non-performing assets where 
it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition and asset classification norms prescribed by the RBI.
	
Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument on a straight-line method.
	
Front end fees on processing of loans are recognised upfront as income.

Consolidated financial statements
469
	
Axis Securities Limited
	
Business sourcing and resource management fees are recognised on accrual basis in accordance with the terms and 
contracts entered between the Company and counterparty.
	
Brokerage income on securities is recognized as per contracted rates at the execution of transactions on behalf of the 
customers on the trade date.
	
Gains/ losses on dealing in securities are recognized on a trade date basis.
	
Fees earned for the provision of services are recognised over time as the customer simultaneously receives and 
consumes the benefits, as the services are rendered. These include brokerage fees which is fixed at inception 
irrespective of number of transactions executed. The revenue for such contracts is recognised on consumption of 
benefits and the balance unutilized plan value is recognised on maturity/ validity of the plan.
	
Selling commissions/brokerage generated from primary market operations i.e. procuring subscriptions from investors 
for public offerings of companies, mutual funds etc. are recorded on determination of the amount due to the Company, 
once the allotment of securities are completed.
	
Depository fees are recognised on completion of the transaction.
	
Portfolio management fees are accounted on accrual basis as follows:
	
•	
In case of fees based on fixed percentage of the corpus/fixed amount, income is accrued at the end of 
the quarter/month.
	
•	
In case of fees, based on the returns of the portfolio, income is accounted on each anniversary as 
per the agreement.
	
A.Treds Ltd.
	
Onboarding fee is a one-time fee and is recognized at the time of onboarding of buyer, seller or financier. Transaction 
fee is recurring in nature and is recognised on time proportion basis over the tenure of transaction. Transaction fee 
received from sellers is recognised upfront on the date of transaction. The Company follows recognition of annual fees 
on time proportion basis over the tenure of one year.
	
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Ltd.
	
Merchant checkout fee is recognised on the basis of successful pay-out of wallet usage to the respective merchants. 
Revenues from operating an internet portal, providing recharge and bill payment services are recognized upon 
successful recharge/payment confirmation for the transaction executed. The Company collects Goods and Service 
Taxes (GST) on behalf of the government and therefore, these are not economic benefits flowing to the Company. 
Hence, they are excluded from revenue.
	
Revenue from services i.e. sound box is recognized when the control in services is transferred as per the terms of 
the agreement with merchant i.e. as and when services are rendered. Revenues are disclosed net of the Goods and 
Services Tax charged on such services.
	
Revenues from ancillary activities like convenience fee, merchant monetization fees, issuance fees, system integration, 
paid coupon income, marketing fee etc. are recognised upon rendering of services.
	
Axis Pension Fund Management Company Ltd.
	
Investment management fees are recognised on an accrual basis net of Goods and Services Tax on the daily closing 
assets under management across respective schemes under pension funds.
	
Management fees from schemes defined by the PFRDA are recognized on an accrual basis as per the terms 
defined by PFRDA.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
470
5.10	 Scheme expenses
	
Axis Asset Management Company Ltd.
	
New fund offer expenses
	
Expenses relating to new fund offer of Axis Mutual Fund are charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in 
which they are incurred.
	
Commission
	
Commission paid on Alternate Investment Fund schemes is amortized over the minimum tenure of the scheme. The 
unamortized portion of the commission is carried forward as prepaid expense.
5.11	 Fixed assets and depreciation
	
Group
	
Fixed assets are carried at cost of acquisition less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Cost includes initial 
handling and delivery charges, duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the 
asset. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only when it increases the future economic 
benefit / functioning capability from / of such assets.
	
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of fixed assets that are not ready for their intended use and also includes 
advances paid to acquire fixed assets.
	
Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful life of a fixed asset on a straight-line method from the date of 
addition. The Management believes that depreciation rates currently used, fairly reflect its estimate of the useful lives 
and residual values of fixed assets based on the historical experience of the Group, though these rates in certain cases 
are different from those prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. Whenever there is a revision of the 
estimated useful life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over the revised remaining useful life 
of the said asset.
Asset
Estimated useful life
As per Companies Act, 2013
Leased Land
As per the term of the agreement
-
Owned premises
60 years
60 years
Furniture and Fittings including interior
9 years to 10 years
10 years
Office/Electrical equipment and installations
5 years to 10 years
5 years to 10 years
Application software
5 years
-
Vehicles
4 years
8 years
Computer hardware including printers
3 years
3 years
CCTV and video conferencing equipment
3 years
5 years
	
Assets costing less than `5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
	
Depreciation on assets sold during the year is recognised on a pro-rata basis in the Profit and Loss Accounts till 
the date of sale.
	
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of fixed assets are determined as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of assets and are recognised as income or expense in the Profit and 
Loss Account. Further, profit on sale of premises is appropriated to the Capital Reserve Account (net of taxes and 
transfer to Statutory Reserve) in accordance with RBI instructions.

Consolidated financial statements
471
5.12	 Impairment of Fixed Assets
	
The carrying amounts of fixed assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to ascertain if there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal/external factors. An impairment loss is recognised wherever the carrying amount of an 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and value 
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value at the weighted 
average cost of capital. After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying amount of the asset over its 
remaining useful life.
5.13	 Non-banking assets
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Non-banking assets (‘NBAs’) acquired in satisfaction of claims include land. In the case of land, the Bank creates 
provision and follows the accounting treatment as per specific RBI directions.
5.14	 Lease Transactions
	
Group
	
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership over the lease term are 
classified as operating lease. Lease payments for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the 
Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless the payments are structured to increase in 
line with expected general inflation to compensate for the lessor’s expected inflationary cost increase. Lease income 
from assets given on operating lease is recognized as income in the Profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis over 
the lease term.
5.15	 Employee benefits
	
Short-term employee benefits
	
Short-term employee benefits comprise salaries and other compensations payable for services which the employee 
has rendered during the period. These are recognized at the undiscounted amount in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Defined benefit plans
	
The Bank has defined benefit plans in the form of provident fund, gratuity and resettlement allowance. Provident and 
Gratuity are in the nature of funded defined benefit plans and resettlement allowance is in the nature of unfunded 
defined benefit plan.
	
•	
Provident Fund
	
	
Axis Bank Ltd
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined benefit plan wherein the contributions are charged 
to the Profit and Loss Account of the year when such contributions are due and when services are rendered 
by the employees. Further, an actuarial valuation is conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year to determine the deficiency, if any, in the interest payable on the 
contributions as compared to the interest liability as per the statutory rate declared by the Central Government 
and the shortfall if any due to fluctuations in price or impairment, in the aggregate asset values of the Trust as 
compared to the market value. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognized in the Profit and Loss Account 
and are not deferred.
	
	
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary 
towards respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines.
	
	
Subsidiaries
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined contribution scheme. The Company has no 
obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Company recognises contribution 
payable to the provident fund scheme as an expenditure, when an employee renders the related service. The 
contributions are accounted for on an accrual basis and charged to the Profit & Loss Account.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
472
	
•	
Gratuity
	
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
	
The Bank contributes towards gratuity fund (defined benefit retirement plan) administered by various insurers 
for eligible employees. Under this scheme, the settlement obligation remains with the Bank, although the 
insurers administer the scheme and determine the contribution premium required to be paid by the Bank. The 
plan provides a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement or termination of employment based 
on the respective employee’s salary and the years of employment with the Bank. The liability with regard to 
the gratuity fund is recognized based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the 
Projected Unit Credit Method as at each reporting date based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, 
salary growth, mortality and staff attrition. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately recognized in the Profit and 
Loss Account and are not deferred.
	
	
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment 
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Pending 
notification of the Code and issuance of the final rules/interpretation, the Bank has adopted a prudent policy for 
recognition of provision in respect of the gratuity liability under the Code over and above the provisions made 
in the normal course based on the extant rules. Such provision is determined as at each reporting date, based on 
actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
	
	
In respect of employees at overseas branches (other than expatriates), the liability with regard to gratuity is 
provided on the basis of a prescribed method as per local laws, wherever applicable.
	
	
Subsidiaries
	
	
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit obligation and is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation using 
Projected Unit Credit Method made at the end of each financial year. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately 
recognized in the Profit and Loss Account and are not deferred.
	
•	
Resettlement Allowance
	
	
Axis Bank Ltd
	
	
The Bank provides for resettlement allowance liability in the form of six months’ pay at the time of separation, for 
certain eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition. 
Provision for this liability is based on an actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary using the 
Projected Unit Credit Method as at 31 March each year based on certain assumptions regarding discount rate 
and salary escalation rate.
	
•	
Compensated Absences
	
	
Subsidiaries (Axis Capital Limited and Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited)
	
	
Accumulated leaves, which are expected to be utilized within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term 
employee benefit. The expected cost of such absences is measured as the additional amount that is expected to 
be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date.
	
	
Accumulated leave which is expected to be carried forward beyond twelve months are treated as long-term 
employee benefit for measurement purposes. Such compensated absences are provided for based on the 
actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method at the year-end. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and are not deferred.
	
Defined Contribution plans
	
•	
Superannuation
	
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
	
Employees of the Bank (other than those who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business 
acquisition) are entitled to receive retirement benefits under the Bank’s superannuation scheme either under a 

Consolidated financial statements
473
cash-out option through salary or under a defined contribution plan. Through this defined contribution plan the 
Bank contributes annually a sum equal to 10% of the employee’s eligible annual basic salary to the Life Insurance 
Corporation of India (LIC), which undertakes to pay the lump sum and annuity benefit payments pursuant to the 
scheme. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
	
	
Eligible employees who moved to the Bank as part of the Citibank India Consumer Business acquisition are 
entitled to receive a lumpsum corpus amount under a separate superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of 
10 years as a defined contribution plan. Through this plan, the Bank makes a defined contribution annually of a 
sum equal to 15% of such employee’s eligible annual basic salary to a Superannuation Trust, which undertakes to 
pay the lump sum payments pursuant to the scheme after the vesting period. Such contributions are recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they accrue.
	
•	
National Pension Scheme (‘NPS’)
	
	
Group
	
	
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the NPS, the Group contributes a certain percentage of the 
total basic salary of such employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined contribution plan, which is managed and 
administered by pension fund management companies. Such contributions are recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account in the period in which they accrue.
	
•	
Long term deferred variable pay structure
	
	
Axis Capital Ltd.
	
	
As part of its variable pay structure, the Company operates a long term deferred variable pay structure plan 
in which it defers a part of the entitlement which is to be settled in installments over a period of three years 
at an amount which would be equivalent to the prevailing price of equity shares of Axis Bank at the time of 
settlement. The costs of providing benefits under this plan is determined on the basis of actuarial valuation at 
the year-end using the projected unit credit method.
5.16	 Reward points
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
The Bank runs a loyalty program which seeks to recognize and reward customers based on their relationship with 
the Bank. Under the program, eligible customers are granted loyalty points redeemable in future, subject to certain 
conditions. In addition, the Bank continues to grant reward points in respect of certain credit cards (not covered under 
the loyalty program). The Bank estimates the provision for such loyalty/reward points using an actuarial method at the 
Balance Sheet date through an independent actuary, basis assumptions such as redemption rate, lapse rate, discount 
rate, value of reward points etc. Provision for the said reward points is then made based on the actuarial valuation 
report as furnished by the said independent actuary.
5.17	 Taxation
	
Group
	
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax charge. Current year taxes are determined 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and considering the material principles set out 
in the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to the extent applicable. Deferred income taxes reflect the 
impact of current year timing differences between taxable income and accounting income for the year and reversal of 
timing differences of earlier years.
	
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates and the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance 
Sheet date. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off 
assets against liabilities representing current tax and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to the 
taxes on income levied by same governing taxation laws.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
474
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future taxable 
income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. The impact of changes in the deferred 
tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised and reassessed at each reporting date, based upon the Management’s judgement 
as to whether realisation is considered as reasonably certain. Deferred tax assets are recognised on carry forward of 
unabsorbed depreciation and tax losses only if there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that such 
deferred tax asset can be realised against future profits.
5.18	 Share issue expenses
	
Group
	
Share issue expenses are adjusted from the Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.19	 Corporate Social Responsibility
	
Group
	
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
5.20	 Earnings per share
	
Group
	
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share, as notified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the 
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit after 
tax by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
	
Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue 
equity shares were exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted 
average number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding at the year end except where the 
results are anti-dilutive.
5.21	 Employee stock option/unit scheme
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) provides for grant of stock options on equity shares of the Bank to 
employees and Directors of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Under the Scheme, options are granted at an exercise price, 
which is equal to the fair market price of the underlying equity shares at the date of the grant. The fair market price is 
the latest available closing price, prior to the date of grant, on the stock exchange on which the shares of the Bank are 
listed. If the shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, then the stock exchange where there is highest trading 
volume on the said date is considered.
	
Further, the Employees Stock Unit Scheme (‘the ESU Scheme’) provides for grant of stock units convertible into 
equivalent number of fully paid-up equity share(s) of the Bank to eligible employees. The stock units are granted at an 
exercise price as determined by the Bank and specified at the time of grant which shall not be less than the face value 
of the equity shares of the Bank.
	
As per RBI guidelines, for options/units granted after 31 March, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method and 
recognizes the fair value of such options/units computed using the Black-Scholes model without reducing estimated 
forfeitures, as compensation expense over the vesting period. On exercise of the stock options/units, the corresponding 
balance under Employee Stock Options/Units Outstanding account is transferred to the Share Premium account. In 

Consolidated financial statements
475
respect of the options/units which expire unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock Options/
Units Outstanding account is transferred to the General Reserve. In respect of Employee Stock Options/Units 
which are granted to the employees of the subsidiaries, the Bank recovers the cost from the subsidiaries over the 
vesting period.
5.22	 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
	
Group
	
In accordance with AS-29 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets-” provision is recognised when 
the Group has a present obligation as a result of past event where it is probable that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are not discounted to 
its present value and are determined based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet 
date. These are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
	
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
	
•	
a possible obligation arising from a past event, the existence of which will be confirmed by occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not within the control of the Group; or
	
•	
a present obligation arising from a past event which is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation 
cannot be made.
	
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is 
remote, no provision or disclosure is made contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements. However, 
contingent assets are assessed continually and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the 
asset and related income are recognised in the period in which the change occurs.
5.23	 Accounting for dividend
	
Group
	
As per AS-4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance Sheet date’ as notified by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, the Group does not account for proposed dividend 
as a liability through appropriation from the Profit and Loss Account. The same is recognised in the year of actual 
payout post approval of the shareholders. However, the Bank considers proposed dividend in determining capital 
funds in computing the capital adequacy ratio as on the reporting date.
5.24	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Group
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, rupee digital currency, balances with RBI, balances with other banks 
and money at call and short notice.
5.25	 Segment Reporting
	
Group
	
The disclosure relating to segment information is made in accordance with AS-17: ‘Segment Reporting’ and relevant 
guidelines issued by the RBI.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
476
18. 	 NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
1.	
Disclosures
1.1	
‘Provisions and contingencies’ recognised in the Profit and Loss Account comprise of:
 (` in crores)
For the year ended
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Provision for income tax
- Current tax
8,160.63
7,783.67
- Deferred tax [(Refer note 18 (1.11)]
449.79
 970.79
8,610.42
8,754.46
Provision for non-performing assets (including bad debts written off, net of write backs and 
recoveries in written off accounts)1
7,817.29
3,754.58
Provision for restructured assets
(0.80)
(0.66)
Provision for Covid-19 restructuring & MSME restructuring
(143.48)
(279.35)
Provision towards standard assets
96.12
249.74
Provision for unhedged foreign currency exposures
(54.74)
91.57
Provision for country risk
10.57
6.13
Additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan
(38.44)
49.18
Provision for probable legal cases
527.55
12.56
Provision for other contingencies
(47.72)
 294.32
Total
16,776.77
12,932.53
	
1.	
includes provision for non-performing advances of `11,866.99 crores (previous year `6,676.16 crores) and write-back of provision 
on non-performing investments of `222.51 crores (previous year provision of `142.07 crores), net of recoveries from written off 
accounts of `3,827.19 crores (previous year `2,779.51 crores)
1.2	 Capital instruments
	
a)	
Share Capital
	
	
During the years ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised equity capital other than 
through allotment of equity shares to eligible employees upon exercise of options/units under its Employees 
Stock Option/Unit Scheme. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the exercise of options/units, 
the Bank raised `685.87 crores, consisting of share capital of `2.16 crores and share premium of `683.71 crores 
(previous year `557.21 crores, consisting of share capital of `1.94 crores and share premium of `555.27 crores).
	
b)	
Other capital instruments
	
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank has not raised any non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-I/
Tier-II capital.
	
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank redeemed non-equity Basel III compliant Tier-II capital, the 
details of which are set out below:
Instrument
Capital
Date of maturity
Period
Coupon
Amount
Subordinated debt
Tier-II
12 February, 2025
120 months
8.45%
`850.00 crores
	
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2024, the Bank has not raised or redeemed any non equity Basel III compliant 
Tier-I/Tier-II capital.
1.3	 Divergence in asset classification and provisioning
	
In terms of RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning 
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements. The disclosure 
is required if either or both of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the additional provisioning for NPAs assessed 
by RBI exceeds 5% of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period and (b) the 
additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5% or 10% of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference 
period ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023 respectively.

Consolidated financial statements
477
	
Based on the above, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs is required with 
respect to RBI’s annual supervisory process for the year ended 31 March, 2024 and 31 March, 2023.
1.4	
Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’)
	
The details of EPS computation is set out below:
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Basic and Diluted earnings for the year (Net profit after tax) (` in crores)
28,055.11
26,386.20
Basic weighted average no. of shares (in crores)
309.26
308.17
Add: Equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/units under ESOP/
ESU scheme (in crores)
1.84
2.23
Diluted weighted average no. of shares (in crores)
311.10
310.40
Basic EPS (`)
90.72
85.62
Less: Effect of potential equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock options/
units under ESOP/ESU scheme (`)
(0.54)
(0.61)
Diluted EPS (`)
90.18
85.01
Nominal value of shares (`)
2.00
2.00
	
Dilution of equity is on account of 18,432,380 stock options/units (previous year 22,287,930 stock options/units)
1.5	
Employee Stock Options/Units
	
Over the period till 31 March 2025, pursuant to the approval of the shareholders the Bank has framed Employee 
Stock Option Schemes for options aggregating 315,087,000 that vest in a graded manner over 3 to 4 years, subject 
to vesting conditions. The options can be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Further, pursuant 
to the approval of the shareholders in January 2023, the Bank also framed an Employee Stock Units (ESUs) Scheme 
aggregating to 50,000,000 units that vest in a graded manner over 3 years, subject to vesting conditions. The ESUs 
can be exercised within five years from the date of the vesting. Within the respective overall ceiling of options/units 
the Bank is authorised to issue options/units to eligible employees and Whole Time Directors (including those of 
subsidiary companies and Associate entity).
	
324,312,311 options and 2,704,077 ESUs have been granted under the Schemes till the previous year ended 31 
March, 2024. During the year ended 31 March, 2025, pursuant to the approval of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, the Bank granted options/units (each option representing entitlement to one equity share of the Bank) to 
eligible employees/directors of the Bank/subsidiary companies as set out below:
Date of grant
Options/ESUs
No. of options granted
Grant price (` per option/unit)
25 April, 2024
Options
7,019,246
1,063.25
25 April, 2024
ESUs
2,408,870
2.00
11 July, 2024
Options
86,261
1,291.65
	
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below:
Options 
outstanding
Range of exercise 
prices (`)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
52,199,448
 469.90 to 929.80
 712.34
4.27
Granted during the year
7,105,507
1,063.25 to 1,291.65
1066.02
-
Forfeited during the year
(2,455,328)
469.90 to 1,063.25
820.58
-
Expired during the year
(102,753)
 469.90 to 757.10
654.80
-
Exercised during the year
(10,393,527)
469.90 to 848.80
659.82
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
46,353,347
 488.35 to 1,291.65
772.73
4.01
Exercisable at the end of the year
34,860,694
488.35 to 1,063.25
707.90
3.32
	
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,143.23.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
478
	
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2025 is set out below:
Units
outstanding
Exercise price (`)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
2,534,240
2.00
2.00
6.09
Granted during the year
2,408,870
2.00
2.00
-
Forfeited during the year
(270,729)
2.00
2.00
-
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
(405,164)
2.00
2.00
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
4,267,217
 2.00
 2.00
5.75
Exercisable at the end of the year
1,057,224
2.00
2.00
4.63
	
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,146.05.
	
Stock option activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below:
Options 
outstanding
Range of exercise 
prices (`)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
51,107,688
433.10 to 804.80
653.48
4.37
Granted during the year
12,705,878
848.80 to 929.80
848.84
-
Forfeited during the year
(1,829,116)
469.90 to 848.80
756.94
-
Expired during the year
(82,360)
 469.90 to 535.00
505.43
-
Exercised during the year
(9,702,642)
433.10 to 848.80
574.29
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
52,199,448
469.90 to 929.80
712.34
4.27
Exercisable at the end of the year
37,480,122
469.90 to 929.80
678.79
3.46
	
The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was `1,003.21.
	
Stock units activity under the Scheme for the year ended 31 March, 2024 is set out below:
Units
outstanding
Exercise price (`)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(Years)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
-
-
-
-
Granted during the year
2,704,077
2.00
2.00
-
Forfeited during the year
(154,116)
2.00
2.00
-
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
(15,721)
2.00
2.00
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
2,534,240
 2.00
 2.00
6.09
Exercisable at the end of the year
749,823
2.00
2.00
4.98
	
The weighted average share price in respect of units exercised during the year was `1,044.23.
	
Fair Value Methodology
	
In line with RBI clarification on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/Chief Executive Officers/
Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff issued on 30 August, 2021, the Bank follows the fair value method 
for all share-linked instruments granted after 31 March, 2021 and consequently recognizes the fair value of options 
computed using the Black-Scholes model, without reducing estimated forfeitures, as a compensation expense over the 
vesting period. During the year, the Group recognised compensation cost of `430.53 crores (Previous year `519.57 
crores) for options/units granted to employees of the Group.

Consolidated financial statements
479
	
The fair value of the options/units is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes options pricing model, 
with the following assumptions:
 31 March, 2025
 31 March, 2024
ESOP
ESU
ESOP
ESU
Dividend yield
0.09%
0.09%
0.26%
0.26%
Expected life
2.95-5.95 years
1-3 years
2.95-5.95 years
1-3 years
Risk free interest rate
6.85% to 7.09%
6.95% to 7.06%
6.79% to 7.17%
6.94% to 7.12%
Volatility
24.00% to 29.15%
19.89% to 24.01%
29.90% to 38.27%
25.28% to 31.99%
	
Volatility is the measure of the amount by which a price has fluctuated or is expected to fluctuate during a period. 
The measure of volatility used in the Black-Scholes options pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of 
the continuously compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. For calculating volatility, the daily 
volatility of the stock prices on the National Stock Exchange, over a period prior to the date of grant, corresponding 
with the expected life of the options has been considered.
	
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `358.68 
(previous year `297.95).
	
The weighted average fair value of units granted during the year ended 31 March, 2025 is `1,059.51 (previous 
year: `842.45).
1.6	
Proposed Dividend
	
The Board of Directors, in their meeting held on 24 April, 2025 have proposed a final dividend of `1 per equity share 
amounting to `309.74 crores. The proposal is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
In terms of revised Accounting Standard (AS) 4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance sheet date’ 
as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs through the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, such 
proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability as on 31 March, 2025.
	
During the year, the Bank paid final dividend of `1 per equity share amounting `309.09 crores pertaining to the 
previous year ended 31 March, 2024.
1.7	
Segmental reporting
	
The business of the Group is divided into four segments: Treasury, Retail Banking, Corporate/Wholesale Banking and 
Other Banking Business. These segments have been identified and based on the RBI’s revised guidelines on Segment 
Reporting issued on 18 April 2007 vide Circular No. DBOD.No.BP.BC.81/21.04.018/2006-07. The principal activities 
of these segments are as under.
Segment
Principal Activities
Treasury
Treasury operations include investments in sovereign and corporate debt, equity and mutual funds, 
trading operations, derivative trading and foreign exchange operations on the proprietary account and 
for customers. The Treasury segment also includes the central funding unit.
Retail Banking
Constitutes lending to individuals/small businesses through the branch network and other delivery 
channels subject to the orientation, nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum 
thereof. Retail Banking activities also include liability products, card services, internet banking, mobile 
banking, ATM services, depository, financial advisory services and NRI services.
Digital Banking (Sub- 
segment of Retail Banking)
In accordance with RBI circular DOR.AUT.REC.12/22.01.001/2022-23 dated 7 April 2022 on 
Establishment of Digital Banking Units, the Bank has presented ‘Digital Banking’ as a sub-segment of the 
Retail Banking segment.
Corporate/Wholesale 
Banking
Includes corporate relationships not included under Retail Banking, corporate advisory services, 
placements and syndication, project appraisals, capital market related services and cash management 
services.
Other Banking Business
Includes para banking activities like third party product distribution and other banking transactions not 
covered under any of the above three segments.
	
Unallocated assets and liabilities - All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment 

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
480
such as deferred tax, tax paid in advance net of provision, provision for other contingencies towards potential 
expected losses etc.
	
Business segments in respect of operations of the subsidiaries have been identified and reported taking into account 
the customer profile, the nature of product and services and the organisation structure.
	
Revenues of the Treasury segment primarily consist of fees and gains or losses from trading operations and interest 
income on the investment portfolio. The principal expenses of the segment consist of interest expense on funds 
borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct 
overheads and allocated expenses.
	
Revenues of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking segment consist of interest and fees earned on loans given to 
customers falling under this segment and fees arising from transaction services and merchant banking activities such 
as syndication and debenture trusteeship. Revenues of the Retail Banking segment are derived from interest earned on 
loans classified under this segment, fees for banking and advisory services, ATM interchange fees and cards products. 
Expenses of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking and Retail Banking segments primarily comprise interest expense on 
deposits and funds borrowed from other internal segments, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating the 
branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses.
	
Segment income includes earnings from external customers and from funds transferred to the other segments. 
Segment result includes revenue as reduced by interest expense and operating expenses and provisions, if any, for that 
segment. Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Inter segment interest income and interest 
expense represent the transfer price received from and paid to the Central Funding Unit (CFU) respectively. For this 
purpose, the funds transfer pricing mechanism presently followed by the Group, which is based on historical matched 
maturity and internal benchmarks, has been used by the Group and relied upon by the Statutory Auditors. Operating 
expenses other than those directly attributable to segments are allocated to the segments based on an activity-based 
costing methodology. All activities in the Group are segregated segment-wise and allocated to the respective segment.

Consolidated financial statements
481
Segmental results are set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Treasury
Corporate/
Wholesale 
Banking
Retail Banking
Other 
Banking 
Business
Unallocated
Total
Digital 
Banking 
Business
Other Retail 
Banking
Business
Total Retail 
Banking
Segment Revenue
Gross interest income (external customers)
25,251.54
35,230.05
15,446.07
51,077.71
66,523.78
-
368.72
127,374.09
Other income
3,555.25
5,682.83
7,685.28
5,658.08
13,343.36
5,961.33
-
28,542.77
Total income as per Profit and Loss Account
28,806.79
40,912.88
23,131.35
56,735.79
79,867.14
5,961.33
368.72
155,916.86
Add/(less) inter segment interest income
3,545.25
8,447.91
11,189.01
53,694.40
64,883.41
-
-
76,876.57
Total segment revenue
32,352.04
49,360.79
34,320.36
1,10,430.19
1,44,750.55
5,961.33
368.72
232,793.43
Less: Interest expense (external customers)
20,479.18
1,705.37
9,215.82
39,635.94
48,851.76
-
-
71,036.31
Less: Inter segment interest expense
5,368.43
29,251.88
7,164.82
35,091.44
42,256.26
-
-
76,876.57
Less: Operating expenses
491.47
6,012.71
10,151.13
22,477.19
32,628.32
859.54
-
39,992.04
Operating profit
6,012.96
12,390.83
7,788.59
13,225.62
21,014.21
5,101.79
368.72
44,888.51
Less: Provision for non-performing assets/others1
(1,182.68)
(844.29)
5,590.49
4,631.47
10,221.96
0.02
(28.66)
8,166.35
Segment result
7,195.64
13,235.12
2,198.10
8,594.15
10,792.25
5,101.77
397.38
36,722.16
Less: Provision for tax
8,610.42
Net Profit before minority interest and earnings 
from Associate
28,111.74
Less: Minority Interest
135.69
Add: Share of Profit in Associate
79.06
Extraordinary profit/loss
-
Net Profit
28,055.11
Segment assets
535,932.97
445,384.54
127,728.56
537,802.52
665,531.08
3,224.78
6,889.24
1,656,962.61
Segment liabilities
294,035.21
233,574.59
174,174.82
760,214.82
934,389.64
231.22
8,679.122
1,470,909.78
Net assets
241,897.76
211,809.95
(46,446.26)
(222,412.30)
(268,858.56)
2,993.56
(1,789.88)
186,052.83
Capital expenditure for the year
14.88
509.33
458.99
1,522.44
1,981.43
86.14
-
2,591.78
Depreciation on fixed assets for the year
10.24
346.36
315.83
1,045.57
1,361.40
48.97
-
1,766.97
1.	
represents material non-cash items other than depreciation

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
482
2.	 includes minority interest of `635.13 crores
(` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Treasury
Corporate/
Wholesale 
Banking
Retail Banking
Other 
Banking 
Business
Unallocated
Total
Digital 
Banking 
Business
Other Retail 
Banking
Business
Total Retail 
Banking
Segment Revenue
Gross interest income (external customers)
22,327.33
32,256.89
11,564.11
46,535.67
58,099.78
75.05
-
112,759.05
Other income
 3,046.26
 5,214.29
 7,026.13
 5,380.92
 12,407.05
 4,562.71
-
 25,230.31
Total income as per Profit and Loss Account
25,373.59
37,471.18
18,590.24
51,916.59
 70,506.83
 4,637.76
-
137,989.36
Add/(less) inter segment interest income
5,351.03
8,915.86
7,526.57
47,065.01
54,591.58
-
-
68,858.47
Total segment revenue
30,724.62
46,387.04
26,116.81
98,981.60
1,25,098.41
4,637.76
-
206,847.83
Less: Interest expense (external customers)
18,993.67
2,043.16
6,290.16
34,101.49
40,391.65
(37.74)
-
61,390.74
Less: Inter segment interest expense
5,114.69
26,505.30
5,455.28
31,783.20
37,238.48
-
-
68,858.47
Less: Operating expenses
386.95
5,312.09
10,353.21
20,402.45
30,755.66
787.85
-
37,242.55
Operating profit
 6,229.31
 12,526.49
 4,018.16
 12,694.46
 16,712.62
 3,887.65
-
 39,356.07
Less: Provision for non-performing assets/others1
(4.54)
(1,485.81)
2,895.29
2,773.93
5,669.22
(0.80)
-
4,178.07
Segment result
6,233.85
14,012.30
1,122.87
9,920.53
11,043.40
3,888.45
-
35,178.00
Less: Provision for tax
8,754.46
Net Profit before minority interest and earnings 
from Associate
26,423.54
Less: Minority Interest
106.05
Add: Share of Profit in Associate
68.71
Extraordinary profit/loss
-
Net Profit
26,386.20
Segment assets
483,031.79
403,661.11
107,119.17
515,184.82
622,303.99
3,036.43
6,205.21
1,518,238.53
Segment liabilities
288,601.26
227,564.39
1,24,919.44
713,992.50
838,911.94
234.55
6,797.362
1,362,109.50
Net assets
194,430.53
176,096.72
(17,800.27)
(198,807.68)
(216,607.95)
2,801.88
(592.15)
156,129.03
Capital expenditure for the year
15.44
463.33
329.77
1,412.06
1,741.83
56.73
(16.69)
2,260.64
Depreciation on fixed assets for the year
9.45
284.71
199.44
876.08
1,075.52
35.47
(16.69)
1,388.46
1.	
represents material non-cash items other than depreciation
2.	 includes minority interest of `499.44 crores

Consolidated financial statements
483
	
Geographic Segments
(` in crores)
Domestic
International
Total
31 March, 
2025
31 March, 
2024
31 March, 
2025
31 March, 
2024
31 March, 
2025
31 March, 
2024
Revenue
152,580.80
134,887.86
3,336.05
3,101.50
155,916.85
137,989.36
Assets
1,600,411.89
1,466,207.94
56,550.72
52,030.59
1,656,962.61
1,518,238.53
Capital expenditure for the year
2,585.29
2,260.15
6.49
0.49
2,591.78
2,260.64
Depreciation on fixed assets for 
the year
1,765.61
1,386.81
1.36
1.65
1,766.97
1,388.46
1.8	
Related party disclosure
	
The related parties of the Group are broadly classified as:
	
a)	
Promoters
	
	
The Bank has identified the following entities as its Promoters:
 
 
• 
Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI) (upto 17 July, 2023)
 
 
• 
Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)
	
b)	
Key Management Personnel
 
 
• 
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry (MD & CEO)
 
 
• 
Mr. Rajiv Anand (Deputy Managing Director)
 
 
• 
Mr. Subrat Mohanty (Executive Director) (with effect from 17 August, 2023)
 
 
• 
Mr. Munish Sharda (Executive Director) (with effect from 27 February, 2024)
	
c)	
Relatives of Key Management Personnel
	
	
Ms. Preeti Chaudhry, Mr. Anagh Chaudhry, Mr. Aruj Chaudhry, Mr. Aryan Chaudhry, Ms. Rajul Parekh, Ms. Chhavi 
Kharb, Mr. Ashok Kharb, Mr. Om Singh Chaudhry, Ms. Kusum Chaudhry, Ms. Gitanjali Anand, Ms. Tara Anand, 
Ms. Nandita Anand, Mr. P.L. Narain, Mr. P. Srinivas, Ms. Ratna Rao Shekar, Ms. Charu Narain, Ms. K Ramalakshmi, 
Ms. Smitha Mohanty, Mr. Agastya Mohanty, Mr. Rajat Mohanty, Mr. Neelima Mohanty, Mr. Narasingh 
Mohanty, Ms. Gitashree Mohanty, Ms. Rima Sharda, Ms. Tanya Sharda, Ms. Shashi Sharda, Mr. Rakesh Sharda, 
Ms. Monica Sharda.
	
d) 	
Associate
 
 
• 
Axis Max Life Insurance Limited (formerly Max Life Insurance Company Limited)
	
Based on RBI guidelines, details of transactions with Promoter (Life Insurance Corporation of India) and Associate 
(Axis Max Life Insurance Limited) are not disclosed since there is only one entity/party in the aforesaid categories.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
484
	
The details of transactions of the Bank with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel#
Total
Dividend paid
0.06
-*
0.06
Interest paid
0.38
0.76
1.14
Interest received
0.01
-*
0.01
Investment of related party in the Bank
53.29
-
53.29
Remuneration paid
27.71
-
27.71
Contribution to employee benefit fund
-
-
-
Advance granted (net)
-
0.07
0.07
Advance repaid
0.77
-
0.77
Receiving of services
-
-
-
Rendering of services
0.03
-*
0.03
Sale/ Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related party
0.14
-*
0.14
Other reimbursements to related party
-
-
-
	
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group as on 31 March, 2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits with the Bank
8.81
14.43
23.24
Advances
0.19
0.15
0.34
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.12
-*
0.12
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group during the year ended 31 March, 
2025 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits with the Bank
22.83
14.77
37.60
Advances
1.01
0.23
1.24
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.14
-*
0.14
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-

Consolidated financial statements
485
	
The details of transactions of the Group with its related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Promoters
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel#
Total
Dividend paid
24.49
0.05
-*
24.54
Interest paid
399.71
0.23
0.47
400.41
Interest received
-*
0.04
-*
0.04
Investment of related party in the Bank
-
20.39
-
20.39
Redemption of Hybrid capital/Bonds of the Bank
-
-
-
-
Sale of investments
-
-
-
-
Remuneration paid
-
17.77
-
17.77
Contribution to employee benefit fund
15.95
-
-
15.95
Placement of deposits
-
-
-
-
Repayment of deposit
-
-
-
-
Advance granted (net)
-
-
-
-
Advance repaid
-
0.42
-
0.42
Receiving of services
97.24
-
-
97.24
Rendering of services
90.82
0.03
0.01
90.86
Sale/ Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from 
related party
-
0.22
-
0.22
Other reimbursements from related party
-
-
-
-
Other reimbursements to related party
1.14
-
-
1.14
	
# Details of transactions of the Bank with KMP and relatives of KMP are for the period during which the KMP are related parties of the Bank.
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group as on 31 March, 2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits with the Bank
7.63
8.63
16.26
Placement of security deposits
-
-
-
Advances
0.98
0.06
1.04
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.14
-*
0.14
Non-funded commitments
-
-
Investment of related party in Hybrid capital/ Bonds of the Bank
-
-
-
Other receivables (net)
-
-
-
Other payables (net)
-
-
-
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
	
The maximum balances payable to/receivable from the related parties of the Group during the year ended 31 March, 
2024 are given below:
(` in crores)
Items/Related Party
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits with the Bank
14.09
9.12
23.21
Placement of security deposits
-
-
-
Advances
1.34
0.07
1.41
Investment of related party in the Bank
0.14
-*
0.14
Investment in non-equity instrument of related party
-
-
-
Non-funded commitments
-
-
-
Investment of related party in Hybrid capital/Bonds of the Bank
-
-
-
Other receivables (net)
-
-
-
Other payables (net)
-
-
-
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
486
	
The significant transactions between the Group and related parties during the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 
March, 2024 are given below. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a significant related party transaction 
wherever it exceeds 10% of the aggregate value of all related party transactions in that category:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March, 2025
Year ended 
31 March, 2024
Dividend paid
Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.06
0.05
Interest paid
Om Singh Chaudhry
0.34
0.32
Preeti Chaudhry
0.25
0.09
Mr. Subrat Mohanty
0.27
0.15
Interest received
Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.01
0.04
Mr. Rakesh Sharda
-*
-
Investment of related party in the Bank
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry
35.09
9.77
Mr. Rajiv Anand
13.97
10.62
Remuneration paid
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry
9.80
9.10
Mr. Rajiv Anand
6.84
6.07
Mr. Subrat Mohanty
5.63
2.29
Mr. Munish Sharda
5.44
0.31
Rendering of services
Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.03
0.01
Advance repaid
Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.77
0.42
Advance granted (net)
Rakesh Sharda
0.07
-
Sale/ Purchase of foreign exchange currency to/from related party
Mr. Amitabh Chaudhry
0.04
0.10
Mr. Rajiv Anand
0.03
0.09
Mr. Subrat Mohanty
0.03
0.02
Mr. Munish Sharda
0.04
0.01
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-
1.9	
Leases
	
Disclosure in respect of assets taken on operating lease
	
This comprises of branches, office premises/ATMs, cash deposit machines, currency chests, staff quarters, office 
and IT equipments.
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Future lease rentals payable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year
1,370.87
1,256.13
- Later than one year and not later than five years
4,367.42
3,934.11
- Later than five years
5,059.20
4,019.75
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year
1,803.82
1,542.65
	
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.
	
The terms of renewal/purchase options and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. 
There are generally no undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
	
There are generally no undue restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.

Consolidated financial statements
487
	
Disclosure in respect of assets given on operating lease
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Gross carrying amount of premises at the end of the year
209.60
209.60
Accumulated depreciation at the end of the year
32.41
28.92
Total depreciation charged to profit and loss account for the year
3.49
3.49
Future lease rentals receivable as at the end of the year:
- Not later than one year
28.66
28.66
- Later than one year and not later than five years
81.14
92.56
- Later than five years
34.17
51.41
	
There are no provisions relating to contingent rent.
1.10	 Movement in fixed assets capitalized as application software and intangibles (included in other Fixed Assets)
 
• 
Movement of fixed assets capitalized as application software
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year
4,155.24
3,443.83
Additions during the year1
1,148.96
736.53
Deductions during the year
(139.37)
(25.12)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March
(3,335.14)
(2,789.09)
Closing balance as at 31 March
1,829.69
1,366.15
Depreciation charge for the year
677.99
527.23
	
	
1. includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation for assets denominated in foreign currency.
 
• 
Movement of fixed assets capitalized as intangibles and goodwill
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
At cost at the beginning of the year
11,932.39
11,949.08
Additions during the year
-
-
Deductions during the year
-
(16.69)
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March
11,932.39
11,932.39
Closing balance as at 31 March
-
-
Amortisation charge for the year
-
(16.69)
1.11	 The major components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities arising out of timing differences are as under:
(` in crores)
As at
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Deferred tax assets on account of provisions for loan losses / doubtful debts
3,629.94
3,949.80
Deferred tax assets on account of provision for employee benefits
147.45
71.11
Deferred tax assets on Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (FCTR)
189.90
148.95
Deferred tax assets on other items
1,950.03
1,950.24
Deferred tax assets
5,917.32
6,120.10
Deferred tax liabilities on account of depreciation on fixed assets
84.70
75.40
Deferred tax liability on creation of Special Reserve under Income Tax Act [Refer Schedule 2 
(V)(A) of Consoldiated Balance Sheet]
863.88
606.92
Deferred tax liability on transition gain on MTM of Investments
115.62
-
Deferred tax liabilities on interest on income tax refund
90.97
-
Deferred tax liabilities on other items
147.53
 2.81
Deferred tax liabilities
 1,302.70
 685.13
Net deferred tax asset
4,614.62
5,434.97

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
488
1.12	 Employee Benefits
	
Group
	
Provident Fund
	
The contribution to the employee’s provident fund (including Employee Pension Scheme) of the Group amounted to 
`460.67 crores for the year ended 31 March, 2025 (previous year `408.92 crores).
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
The rules of the Bank’s Provident Fund administered by a Trust require that if the Board of Trustees are unable to 
pay interest at the rate declared for Employees’ Provident Fund by the Government under para 60 of the Employees’ 
Provident Fund Scheme, 1952 for the reason that the return on investment is less or for any other reason, then the 
deficiency shall be made good by the Bank.
	
Based on an actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary, there is no deficiency in the Trust observed as 
at the Balance Sheet date.
	
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Provident Fund benefit plan (including staff 
deputed at subsidiaries).
	
Profit and Loss Account
	
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost
288.99
251.33
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation
324.38
297.90
Expected Return on Plan Assets
(385.65)
(344.84)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year
4.20
4.16
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition
-
-
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard – 15
 57.07
 42.78
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(I)]
288.99
251.33
Actual Return on Plan Assets
453.51
381.61
	
Balance Sheet
	
Details of provision for provident fund
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Fair Value of Plan Assets
5,178.59
4,519.51
Present Value of Funded Obligations
 (5,004.56)
 (4,402.55)
Net asset
 174.03
 116.96
Amount not recognized as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of Accounting Standard – 15)
(174.03)
(116.96)
Net Asset/ (Liability)
 -
 -
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities
-
-
Assets
-
-
Net Asset/(Liability)
-
-

Consolidated financial statements
489
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation
4,402.55
3,933.75
Current Service Cost
288.99
251.33
Interest Cost
324.38
297.90
Actuarial Losses/(Gains)
72.06
40.93
Employees Contribution
479.87
442.48
Liability transferred from/to other companies
(24.13)
(118.31)
Benefits Paid
(539.16)
(445.53)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation
5,004.56
4,402.55
	
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Change in the Fair Value of Assets
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets
4,519.51
4,007.93
Expected Return on Plan Assets
385.65
344.84
Actuarial Gains/(Losses)
67.86
36.77
Employer contribution during the period
288.99
251.33
Employee contribution during the period
479.87
442.48
Assets transferred from/to other companies
(24.13)
(118.31)
Benefits Paid
(539.16)
(445.53)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets
5,178.59
4,519.51
	
Experience adjustments
 (` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
31 March, 2023
31 March, 2022
31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations
5,004.56
4,402.55
3,933.75
3,404.21
2,861.59
Plan Assets
5,178.59
4,519.51
4,007.93
3,538.64
2,861.59
Surplus/(Deficit)
174.03
116.96
74.18
134.43
-
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities
38.22
19.59
17.24
169.83
43.51
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets
67.86
36.77
(106.74)
270.73
(12.88)
	
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Government securities
53%
51%
Other debt instruments
11%
11%
Equity shares
13%
11%
Others
23%
27%
	
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Discount rate for the term of the obligation
6.80%
7.20%
Average historic yield on the investment portfolio
8.19%
8.34%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment portfolio
6.80%
7.20%
Expected investment return
8.19%
8.34%
Guaranteed rate of return
8.25%
8.25%
	
Superannuation
	
The Group contributed `15.07 crores (previous year `15.95 crores) to the superannuation plan for the year.
	
The Bank has also accrued `12.93 crores (previous year `16.09 crores) for the eligible employees who had moved to 
the Bank as part of the Citibank India consumer business acquisition as they are entitled to receive a lumpsum corpus 
amount under a separate Superannuation scheme with vesting criteria of 10 years as a defined contribution plan.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
490
	
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
	
During the year, the Group has contributed `22.22 crores (previous year `15.54 crores) to the NPS for employees who 
have opted for the scheme.
	
Leave Encashment
	
The liability of compensated absences of accumulated privileged leave of the employees of the Group, based on 
actuarial valuation is given below.
 (` in crores)
31 March, 2025
Liability - Privilege 
Leave
Total Expenses 
included under 
Schedule 16(I)
Assumptions
Discount Rate
Salary escalation 
rate
Axis Capital Ltd.
0.19
0.07
6.54%
7.83%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
6.38
2.57
6.59%
8.50%
 (` in crores)
31 March, 2024
Liability - Privilege 
Leave
Total Expenses 
included under 
Schedule 16(I)
Assumptions
Discount Rate
Salary escalation 
rate
Axis Capital Ltd.
0.12
(0.34)
7.18%
4.23%
A.Treds Ltd.
0.52
0.16
7.25%
10.00%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
5.21
1.75
7.14%
8.00%
	
Group
	
Gratuity
	
The following tables summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
and funded status and amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet for the Gratuity benefit plan.
	
Profit and Loss Account
	
Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in payments to and provisions for employees)
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Current Service Cost
119.82
94.24
Interest on Defined Benefit Obligation
66.83
56.48
Expected Return on Plan Assets
(52.69)
(49.13)
Net Actuarial Losses/(Gains) recognised in the year
16.39
80.67
Losses / (gains) on Acquisition
-
-
Past Service Cost
-
2.26
Total included in “Employee Benefit Expense” [Schedule 16(1)]
150.35
184.52
Actual Return on Plan Assets
66.57
47.45
	
Balance Sheet
	
Details of provision for gratuity
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Present Value of Funded Obligations
(1,000.67)
(858.80)
Present Value of un-funded Obligations
(9.03)
(5.54)
Fair Value of Plan Assets
955.00
762.04
Unrecognised Past Service Cost
 -
 -
Net Asset/ (Liability)
 (54.70)
 (102.30)
Amounts in Balance Sheet
Liabilities
54.70
102.30
Assets
-
-
Net Asset/(Liability) (included under Schedule 11 Other Assets / 
Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities)
(54.70)
(102.30)

Consolidated financial statements
491
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Change in Defined Benefit Obligation
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation
864.34
715.67
Current Service Cost
119.81
94.24
Interest Cost
66.83
56.48
Actuarial Losses/(Gains)
30.28
78.99
Past Service Cost
-
2.26
Liabilities Assumed on Acquisition
-
-
Liabilities transferred in/(out)
0.45
(0.44)
Benefits Paid
(72.01)
(82.86)
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation
1,009.70
864.34
	
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening Fair Value of Plan Assets
762.04
706.72
Expected Return on Plan Assets
52.69
49.13
Actuarial Gains/(Losses)
13.89
(1.68)
Contributions by Employer
197.68
90.33
Assets acquired on acquisition
-
-
Assets transferred out/ Divestment
0.54
(0.67)
Benefits Paid
(71.84)
(81.79)
Closing Fair Value of Plan Assets
955.00
762.04
	
Experience adjustments
 (` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
31 March, 2023
31 March, 2022
31 March, 2021
Defined Benefit Obligations
1,009.70
864.34
715.67
581.52
545.18
Plan Assets
955.00
762.04
706.72
585.56
528.33
Surplus/(Deficit)
(54.70)
(102.30)
(8.95)
4.04
(16.85)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Liabilities
(0.58)
17.34
5.20
29.03
(8.34)
Experience Adjustments on Plan Assets
13.88
(1.68)
(19.11)
9.72
7.92
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
	
Major categories of plan assets (managed by Insurers) as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Government securities
53%
42%
Bonds, debentures and other fixed income instruments
38%
30%
Money market instruments
3%
2%
Equity shares
4%
3%
Balance in bank & others
2%
23%
	
*includes plan assets under transfer pursuant to acquisition of Citibank India Consumer Business
	
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Discount Rate
6.80%
7.20%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
7.00%
7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate
8.00%
8.00%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years)
 24.00%
24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years)
14.00%
14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years)
8.00%
8.00%

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
492
	
Axis Capital Ltd.
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 
Insurer Managed Funds
100.00%
100.00%
	
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.54%
7.18%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
6.54%
7.18%
Salary Escalation Rate
7.83%
4.23%
Employee Turnover
37.15%
18.75%
	
Axis Asset Management Company Ltd.
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 
Insurer Managed Funds
100.00%
100.00%
	
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.70%
7.25%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
7.00%
7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate
11.00%
11.00%
Employee Turnover
15.00% - 20.00%
15.00% - 20.00%
	
Axis Securities Ltd.
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 
Insurer Managed Funds
100.00%
100.00%
	
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.55%
7.15%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
7.00%
7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate
10.00%
8.50%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 44 (age in years) (managerial)
 23.00%
25.00%
- 21 to 44 (age in years) (non managerial)
45.00%
45.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) (managerial)
17.00%
20.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years) (non managerial)
18.00%
18.00%
	
Axis Finance Ltd.
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 
Insurer Managed Funds
100.00%
100.00%
	
*composition of plan assets is not available

Consolidated financial statements
493
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.79%
7.21%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
6.79%
7.21%
Salary Escalation Rate
7.00%
7.00%
Employee Turnover
- For service 2 years and below
29.00%
29.00%
- For service more than 2 years but upto 4 years
11.00%
11.00%
- For service above 4 years
2.00%
2.00%
	
Axis Trustee Services Ltd.
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.55%
7.16%.
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
N.A.
N.A.
Salary Escalation Rate
10.00%
12.00%
Employee Turnover
20.00%
28.00%
	
A.Treds Ltd.
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
The major categories of plan assets* as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets – 
Insurer Managed Funds
100.00%
100.00%
	
*composition of plan assets is not available
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.75%
7.25%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
7.00%
7.00%
Salary Escalation Rate
10.00%
10.00%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years)
24.00%
24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years)
14.00%
14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years)
8.00%
8.00%
	
Freecharge Payment Technologies Pvt. Limited
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.59%
7.14%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
N.A.
N.A.
Salary Escalation Rate
8.50%
8.00%
Employee Turnover
30.00%
35.00%
	
Axis Pension Fund Management Limited
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Discount Rate
6.70%
7.20%
Expected rate of Return on Plan Assets
N.A.
N.A.
Salary Escalation Rate
8.00%
8.00%
Employee Turnover
14.00%
14.00%
	
The estimates of future salary increases considered in acturial valuation take account of the inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors.
	
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on investments 
of the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
494
	
As the contribution expected to be paid to the plan during the annual period beginning after the balance sheet date is 
based on various internal/external factors, a best estimate of the contribution is not determinable.
	
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
	
Resettlement allowance
	
Profit and Loss account
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025, the Bank made a provision of `0.21 crores (previous year `Nil) towards liability 
in respect of resettlement allowance based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
	
Balance Sheet
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Current liability
0.46
0.54
Non current liability
3.24
 2.95
Net Liability as per actuarial valuation (included under Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities)
3.70
3.49
	
Principal actuarial assumptions at the Balance Sheet date:
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Discount Rate
6.80%
7.20%
Salary Escalation Rate
8.00%
8.00%
Employee Turnover
- 21 to 30 (age in years)
24.00%
24.00%
- 31 to 44 (age in years)
14.00%
14.00%
- 45 to 59 (age in years)
8.00%
8.00%
	
Provision towards probable impact on account of Code of Social Security 2020
	
The Group on a prudent basis as per internal policy, based on an actuarial valuation holds a provision of `385.05 crores 
as on 31 March 2025 (`287.60 crores as on 31 March, 2024) towards the gratuity liability on account of probable 
impact due to Code of Social Security 2020. This is over and above the provisions made in normal course based on 
extant rules and as reported in the above disclosure.
	
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
1.13	 Small and Micro Enterprises
	
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from 2 October, 2006, 
certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. Following are the details 
of delayed payments to MSMED registered vendors:
	
Axis Bank Ltd.
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier
11.94
0.01
12.05
0.00*
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, along with 
the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the due date
3.07
0.02
4.37
0.03
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the due date during the year) but 
without adding the interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid
N.A.
0.30
N.A.
0.29
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowed as a deductible 
expenditure under Section 23
N.A.
0.30
N.A.
0.29
	
*Denotes amount less than `50,000/-

Consolidated financial statements
495
	
Subsidiaries
(` in crores)
Particulars
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
The Principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier
4.12
2.99
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, along with the amount of 
the payment made to the supplier beyond the due date
-
-
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the due date during the year) but without adding the interest 
specified under MSMED Act, 2006
-
-
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid
-
-
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until 
such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise, for the 
purpose of disallowed as a deductible expenditure under Section 23
-
-
	
The above is based on the information available with the Group which has been relied upon by the auditors.
1.14	 Provisions and contingencies
	
a)	
 Movement in provision for frauds included under other liabilities is set out below:
(` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening balance at the beginning of the year
214.33
178.06
Additions during the year
56.88
54.72
Reductions on account of payments/reversals during the year
(28.52)
(18.45)
Closing balance at the end of the year
242.69
214.33
	
b)	
Other liabilities include provision for reward points made on actuarial basis, the movement of which 
is set out below:
 (` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year
997.08
711.54
Provision made during the year
1,024.16
495.53
Reductions during the year
(842.79)
(209.99)
Closing provision at the end of the year
1,178.45
997.08
	
c)	
Movement in provision for other contingencies is set out below:
 (` in crores)
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Opening provision at the beginning of the year
7,465.86
3,822.39
Reclassification from provision on standard advances1
-
3,130.18
Addition during the year2
930.86
804.04
Reductions during the year
(507.17)
(290.75)
Closing provision at the end of the year3
7,889.55
7,465.86
	
	
1.	
During the previous year ended 31 March, 2024, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared that COVID-19 is no 
longer a public health emergency of international concern, hence the provision of `5,012 crores carried by the Bank towards 
COVID-19 related risks is no longer required. Consequently, post approval of the Board of Directors, the Bank’s management 
prudently elected to carry forward the aforesaid provision amount in its entirety, towards potential expected losses on certain 
standard advances and / or exposures. The said amount was accordingly reclassified to provision for other contingencies and 
disclosed as other liabilities under Schedule 5 of the Balance Sheet as on reporting date
	
	
2.	
Includes movement on account of exchange rate fluctuation
	
	
3.	
Closing provision includes provision for legal cases, additional provision for delay in implementation of resolution plan, 
provision on AIF investments, provision for future expected losses and provision for other contingencies.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
496
1.15	 Disclosure required as per Ministry of Corporate Affairs notification dated 24 March, 2021
	
During the year ended 31 March, 2025 and 31 March, 2024, other than the transactions undertaken in the normal 
course of banking business and in accordance with extant regulatory guidelines and Bank and its subsidiaries internal 
policies, as applicable:
	
1.	
the Bank and its subsidiaries has not granted any advance/loans or investments or provided guarantee or 
security to any other person(s) or entities with an understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
to further lend or invest on behalf of the Bank or provide guarantee or security or the like to any other person 
identified by the Bank.
	
2.	
the Bank and its subsidiaries has not received any funds from any person(s) or entities with an understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall further lend or invest or provide guarantee or 
security or the like in any other person on behalf of and identified by such person(s)/entities.
1.16	 Expenses exceeding 1% of the total income
	
Details of items under other expenditure (Schedule 16 – Operating Expenses) exceeding 1% of total income of the 
Group are given below:
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2025
Sr. No.
Nature of Expense
(` in crores)
1.
Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA)
2,766.48
2.
Charges paid to Network partners
1,629.80
3.
Cashback charges
1,594.58
4.
Charges paid for purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (excluding taxes)
1,483.53
	
For the year ended 31 March, 2024
Sr. No.
Nature of Expense
(` in crores)
1.
Commission paid to Direct Sales Agents (DSA)
2,143.16
2.
Professional fees
2,022.52
3.
Cashback charges
1,807.75
4.
Business promotion expenses
1,654.16
5.
Charges paid to Network partners
1,517.65
1.17	 Additional information pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
	
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2025 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013) :
 (` in crores)
Name of the entity
Net assets as of 31 March, 2025
Profit or (loss) for the year ended  
31 March, 2025
Amount1
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets2
Amount1
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Parent:
Axis Bank Limited
1,78,616.95
96.00%
26,373.48
94.01%
Subsidiaries:
Axis Capital Limited
1,153.10
0.62%
160.54
0.57%
Axis Trustee Services Limited
107.12
0.06%
21.55
0.08%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
1.73
0.00%*
0.57
0.00%
Axis Asset Management Company Limited
2,361.17
1.27%
500.68
1.78%
Axis UK Limited
4.38
0.00%*
0.34
0.00%
Axis Finance Limited
5,363.83
2.88%
676.14
2.41%
Axis Securities Limited
1,887.32
1.01%
418.78
1.49%

Consolidated financial statements
497
 (` in crores)
Name of the entity
Net assets as of 31 March, 2025
Profit or (loss) for the year ended  
31 March, 2025
Amount1
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets2
Amount1
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited
349.38
0.19%
(42.29)
(0.15%)
Freecharge Business and Technology Services Limited
38.39
0.02%
(1.61)
(0.01%)
A.Treds Limited
72.40
0.04%
37.62
0.13%
Step down Subsidiaries:
Axis Pension Fund Management Limited
58.25
0.03%
(3.86)
(0.01%)
Axis Capital USA LLC
5.09
0.00%
0.12
0.00%
Minority Interest
635.13
0.34%
(135.69)
(0.48%)
Associate:
Axis Max Life Insurance Company Limited
-
-
79.06
0.28%
	
* less than 0.005%
	
1.	
Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
	
2.	
Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
	
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2024 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the 
Companies Act, 2013) :
(` in crores)
Name of the entity
Net assets as of 31 March, 2024
Profit or (loss) for the year ended 
31 March, 2024
Amount1
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets2
Amount1
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Parent:
Axis Bank Limited
150,235.00
96.22%
24,861.43
94.22%
Subsidiaries:
Axis Capital Limited
992.56
0.64%
150.42
0.57%
Axis Trustee Services Limited
99.82
0.06%
24.66
0.09%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
1.16
0.00%*
0.17
0.00%*
Axis Asset Management Company Limited
1,860.50
1.19%
414.04
1.57%
Axis Bank UK Limited
469.14
0.30%
10.26
0.04%
Axis Finance Limited
4,103.53
2.63%
610.37
2.31%
Axis Securities Limited
1,218.54
0.78%
300.96
1.14%
Freecharge Payment Technologies Private Limited
391.67
0.25%
78.86
0.30%
A.Treds Limited
34.77
0.02%
17.81
0.07%
Step down Subsidiaries:
Axis Pension Fund Management Limited
62.11
0.04%
(6.41)
(0.02%)
Axis Capital USA LLC
4.85
0.00%
0.12
0.00%
Minority Interest
(499.44)
(0.32%)
(106.05)
(0.40%)
Associate:
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
-
-
68.71
0.26%
	
* less than 0.005%
	
1.	
Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
	
2.	
Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
1.18	 Description of contingent liabilities
	
a)	
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
	
	
These represent claims filed against the Group in the normal course of business relating to various legal cases 
currently in progress. These also include demands raised by tax authorities and other statutory authorities which 
are disputed by the Group. The Group holds provision of `904.76 crores as on 31 March, 2025 (previous year 
`372.60 crores) towards claims assessed as probable.

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
498
	
b)	
Liability for partly paid investments
	
	
This represents amounts remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
	
c)	
Liability on account of forward exchange contracts
	
	
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, including non-deliverable forward (NDF) contracts on its 
own account and on OTC for customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign 
currency at a future date at the contracted rate. A non-deliverable forward contract is a currency derivatives 
contract to exchange cash flows between the contracted forward exchange rate and prevailing spot rates. 
The amount of contingent liability represents the notional principal of respective forward exchange contracts. 
With respect to the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting 
transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions, 
and hence a large value of gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
	
d)	
Liability on account of derivative contracts
	
	
The Group enters into derivative contracts in the form of currency options/swaps, exchange traded currency 
options, non-deliverable derivatives and interest rate/ currency futures on its own account and on OTC for 
customers. Currency swaps are commitments between two counterparties to exchange streams of interest 
payments and/or principal amounts in different currencies on specified dates over the duration of the swap at a 
pre-agreed exchange rate. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash 
flows. Interest rate futures are standardised, exchange-traded contracts that represent a pledge to undertake a 
certain interest rate transaction at a specified price, on a specified future date. Forward rate agreements (FRA) 
are financial contracts between two counterparties, in which a buyer will pay or receive, on the settlement 
date, the difference between a pre-determined fixed rate (FRA rate) and a reference interest rate, applied on a 
notional principal amount, for a specified forward period. A foreign currency option is an agreement between 
two parties in which one grants to the other the right to buy or sell a specified amount of currency at a specific 
price within a specified time period or at a specified future time. An Exchange Traded Currency Option contract 
is a standardised foreign exchange derivative contract, which gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, 
to exchange money denominated in one currency into another currency at a pre-agreed exchange rate on a 
specified date on the date of expiry. A non-deliverable option contract is a currency derivatives contract that 
offers the right, but not the obligation to either purchase or sell a currency against another currency and the 
contract is settled at the difference between the contracted exchange rate and prevailing spot rate on the expiry 
date. Currency Futures contract is a standardised, exchange-traded contract, to buy or sell a certain underlying 
currency at a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The amount of contingent liability represents the 
notional principal of respective derivative contracts. With respect to the transactions entered into with its 
customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in 
generation of a higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional principal of 
the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
	
e)	
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
	
	
As a part of its banking activities, the Bank issues guarantees on behalf of its customers to enhance their credit 
standing. Guarantees represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the 
customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations. These are stated net of cash margin held with 
the Bank as on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet.
	
f)	
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
	
	
These include documentary credit issued by the Bank on behalf of its customers and bills drawn by the Bank’s 
customers that are accepted or endorsed by the Bank. These are stated net of cash margin held with the Bank 
as on the reporting date in Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities of the Balance Sheet.

Consolidated financial statements
499
	
g)	 Other items for which the Group is contingently liable
	
	
Other items represent outstanding amount of bills rediscounted by the Bank, estimated amount of contracts 
remaining to be executed on capital account, notional principal on account of outstanding Tom/ Spot foreign 
exchange contracts, contracts for purchase of investments where settlement is due post balance sheet date, deed 
of indemnity issued to liquidator of overseas subsidiary, contingent liability relating to undertakings issued towards 
settlements under resolution plan in respect of non-performing assets, commitments towards underwriting and 
investment in equity through bids under Initial Public Offering (IPO) of corporates, commitment for investment 
in Associate entity and the amount transferred to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF).
	
The Group has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for 
material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Group has reviewed and recorded adequate provision as required 
under any law/accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative 
contracts) in the books of account and disclosed the same under the relevant notes in the financial statements, 
where applicable.
2.	
Previous year figures have been regrouped and reclassified, where necessary to conform to current year’s presentation.
In terms of our report attached.
For Axis Bank Ltd.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 107122W/W100672
Chartered Accountants
N. S. Vishwanathan 
Chairman
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Membership No.: 044577
Girish Paranjpe
Director
Rajiv Anand
Deputy Managing Director
Amitabh Chaudhry
Managing Director & CEO
For KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 105146W/W100621
Chartered Accountants
Pranam Wahi
Director
Meena Ganesh
Director
Mini Ipe
Director
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership No.: 117348
Sandeep Poddar
Company Secretary
Puneet Sharma
Chief Financial Officer
S. Mahendra Dev
Director
Date : 24 April, 2025
Place: Mumbai

Financial statements
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
500
(` in crores)
Axis 
Capital 
Ltd.
Axis 
Trustee 
Services 
Ltd.
Axis 
Mutual 
Fund 
Trustee 
Ltd.
Axis Asset 
Management 
Company 
Ltd.
Axis Bank UK 
Ltd. 
(Refer Note 
a)
Axis 
Finance 
Ltd.
Axis 
Securities 
Ltd.
A.Treds 
Ltd.
Freecharge 
Payment 
Technologies 
Private Ltd.
Freecharge 
Business and 
Technology 
Services 
Limited
Axis Capital 
USA LLC 
(Refer Note 
b)
Axis Pension 
Fund 
Management 
Ltd.
The date since when subsidiary was 
acquired
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
6 October, 
2017
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as 
on the last date of the relevant Financial 
year in the case of foreign subsidiaries
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
USD 
(US$ 1 = 
`85.475)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
USD 
(US$ 1 = 
`85.475)
N.A.
Share capital
73.50
1.50
0.05
210.11
4.27
693.57
150.83
65.00
1,763.70
40.00
6.03
80.00
Reserves & surplus
1,079.60
105.62
1.69
2,151.06
0.10
4,670.26
1,736.49
7.39
(1,414.32)
(1.61)
(0.93)
(21.75)
Total assets (Fixed Assets + Investments 
+ Other Assets)
2,309.58
132.89
1.95
2,543.85
13.41
39,779.15
7,711.34
104.13
429.90
38.48
5.36
61.91
Total liabilities (Deposits + Borrowings + 
Other Liabilities + Provisions)
1,156.48
25.77
0.21
182.68
9.04
34,415.32
5,824.02
31.74
80.52
0.09
0.27
3.66
Investments
725.62
9.06
1.58
2,254.24
-
1,519.82
60.46
-
3.71
7.97
4.40
55.77
Turnover (Total Income)
773.47
60.95
2.26
1,296.05
12.53
4,296.47
1,656.02
91.61
312.00
1.96
2.32
10.29
Profit/(Loss) before taxation
251.03
31.12
0.75
671.15
0.34
908.82
563.58
40.54
(55.72)
(1.97)
0.12
(3.86)
Provision for taxation
90.49
9.57
0.18
170.47
-
232.68
144.80
2.92
(13.43)
(0.36)
-
-
Profit/(Loss) after taxation
160.54
21.55
0.57
500.68
0.34
676.14
418.78
37.62
(42.29)
(1.61)
0.12
(3.86)
Proposed Dividend and Tax (including 
cess thereon) (Refer Note c)
-
15.00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
% of shareholding
100%
100%
75%
75%
100%
100%
100%
67%
100%
100%
100%
47.27%
The audited/unaudited financial statements of the above subsidiaries and step down subsidiaries have been drawn up to the same reporting date as that of the 
Bank, i.e. 31 March, 2025.
Notes:
a. 	
Asset/Liability items are stated in INR equivalent of USD ($1 = `85.475 as on 31 March, 2025). Profit and loss items reported in INR based on rates prevailing on the date 
of transactions.
b. 	
Axis Capital USA LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Axis Capital Ltd. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Axis Bank Ltd.), Asset/Liability items are stated in INR equivalent of USD 
($1 = `85.475 as on 31 March, 2025).Profit and loss items are stated in INR equivalent of average rate during financial year ended 31 March 2025.
c. 	
In terms of revised Accounting Standard (AS) 4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance sheet date’ as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs through 
amendment to Companies (Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2016, dated 30 March, 2016, proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability by the subsidiaries 
as on 31 March, 2025.
1. 	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Nil
2. 	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Nil
Form AOC-1
Statement pursuant to first proviso to Sub-Section (3) of Section 129 read with rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries/associate companies/joint ventures
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
As on/For the year ended 31st March 2025

Consolidated financial statements
501
Part “B”: Associates
(` in crores)
Name of Associates
Max Life Insurance 
Company Ltd.
1. 	
Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
31 December, 2024
2. 	
Date on which the Associate was associated or acquired
6 April, 2021
3. 	
Shares of Associate held by Axis Bank Group at March 31, 2025
	
Number of equity shares
392,024,831
	
Amount of Investment in Associate
2,367.35
	
Extent of Holding %
19.02%
4. 	
Description of how there is significant influence
Note 3
5.	
Reason why the Associate is not consolidated
N.A.
6.	
Net Worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet
5,922.57
7.	
Profit/(Loss) for the year
	
Considered in Consolidation
79.06
	
Not considered in Consolidation
336.60
Note:
1. 	
Names of Associate which is yet to commence operations: Nil
2. 	
Names of Associate which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Nil
3. 	
As per Accounting Standard 23 issued by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), Axis Group is deemed to have 
significant influence through its voting power and representation on the Board of directors of the investee company.
Part “C”: Joint Ventures - Not applicable

Basel III Disclosures
As at 31 March, 2025
In accordance with RBI guidelines, banks are required to make Pillar 3 disclosures including leverage ratio and liquidity 
coverage ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) under the Basel III framework. The Bank has made these disclosures 
which are available on its website at the following link:
http://www.axisbank.com/investor-corner/baselIII-disclosures.aspx
Financial statements

Notes

Registered office:
'Trishul', 3rd Floor,  
Opp. Samartheshwar Temple, 
Law Garden, Ellisbridge,  
Ahmedabad – 380 006
Tel. No.: 079–6630 6161
Email: shareholders@axisbank.com
Corporate office: 
Axis Bank Limited, Axis House, 
Pandurang Budhkar Marg,  
Worli, Mumbai – 400 025.
Tel. No.: 022–2425 2525
Fax No.: 022–2425 1800

